<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180222_10-K_edgar_data_36104_0001193125-18-053893_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>26897063</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>641772</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1449579</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6414156</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>11782556</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5420529</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>319</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-18-053893.hdr.sgml : 20180222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180222150708
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-18-053893
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		199
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			US BANCORP \DE\
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000036104
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410255900
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06880
		FILM NUMBER:		18632233

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S. BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402-7020
		BUSINESS PHONE:		651-466-3000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S. BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402-7020

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK STOCK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19720317

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-18-053893.txt : 20180222

10-K
 1
 d492040d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        Form  10-K         

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES      
 
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017        or        

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES      
 
   For the transition period from (not applicable)        Commission file number:  1-6880          
        U.S. Bancorp
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Delaware   
     
    41-0255900     
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
     800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402    
   (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)        (651)  466-3000     
   (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which
registered     

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   

Depositary Shares (each representing 1/100th interest in a share of Series A
  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Series B   Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Series F   Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Series H   Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    0.850% Medium-Term Notes, Series X (Senior), due June 7, 2024   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
   None         
       Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes       No                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes               No  
       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes       No  
            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation  S-T  during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes       No  
            
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
 S-K  is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K  or any amendment to this Form  10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a  non-accelerated  filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and  emerging growth company  in Rule  12b-2 
of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated  filer  
     
            (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Emerging growth company             
    If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the
extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.                 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule  12b-2  of the Act).    Yes               No  
       As of June 30, 2017, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by  non-affiliates  of the registrant was $87.2 billion based on the closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.      Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.   

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

Document    
        
     Parts Into Which Incorporated     

1.  
     
  Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2017 (the  2017 Annual Report )  
        
  Parts I and II   
 
  2.  
     
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 17, 2018 (the  Proxy Statement )  
        
  Part III   

PART I    

Item 1.   
      Business         
   Forward-Looking Statements    
  THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION APPEARS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995: This report contains
forward-looking statements about U.S. Bancorp ( U.S. Bancorp  or the  Company ). Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements and are
based on the information available to, and assumptions and estimates made by, management as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements cover, among other things, anticipated future revenue and expenses and the future plans and prospects of
U.S. Bancorp. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. A reversal or slowing of the current economic recovery or another severe
contraction could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s revenues and the values of its assets and liabilities. Global financial markets could experience a recurrence of significant turbulence, which could reduce the availability of funding to certain
financial institutions and lead to a tightening of credit, a reduction of business activity, and increased market volatility. Stress in the commercial real estate markets, as well as a downturn in the residential real estate markets could cause
credit losses and deterioration in asset values. In addition, changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies or practices could affect U.S. Bancorp in substantial and unpredictable ways. U.S. Bancorp s results could also be adversely
affected by deterioration in general business and economic conditions; changes in interest rates; deterioration in the credit quality of its loan portfolios or in the value of the collateral securing those loans; deterioration in the value of
securities held in its investment securities portfolio; legal and regulatory developments; litigation; increased competition from both banks and  non-banks;  changes in customer behavior and preferences;
breaches in data security; effects of mergers and acquisitions and related integration; effects of critical accounting policies and judgments; and management s ability to effectively manage credit risk, market risk, operational risk, compliance
risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and reputational risk.      For discussion of these and other risks that
may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to the sections entitled  Corporate Risk Profile  on pages 38 to 60 and  Risk Factors  on pages 146 to 156 of the 2017 Annual Report. However, factors other
than these also could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s results, and the reader should not consider these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and U.S.
Bancorp undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.       General Business Description    
  U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in
Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services, cash management,
capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.   
  U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association, is engaged in the general banking business, principally in
domestic markets. U.S. Bank National Association, with $357 billion in deposits at December 31, 2017, provides a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other
financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers operating in specific
industries targeted by the Company. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services
include checking   
         2   

accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management and receivable  lock-box 
collection are provided to corporate customers. U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable
organizations.      Other U.S. Bancorp  non-banking  subsidiaries offer investment and
insurance products to the Company s customers principally within its markets, and fund administration services to a broad range of mutual and other funds.      Banking and investment services are provided through a network of 3,067 banking offices principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the United States, through
 on-line  services and over mobile devices. The Company operates a network of 4,771 ATMs and provides  24-hour,  seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage
banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices throughout the Company s markets. Lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The
Company is also one of the largest providers of corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing services directly to
merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Wholly-owned subsidiaries, and affiliates of Elavon, provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico and segments of Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and fund
administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company.      On a full-time equivalent
basis, as of December 31, 2017, U.S. Bancorp employed 72,402 people.       Competition    
  The commercial banking business is highly competitive. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations,
mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card companies and a variety of other financial services, advisory and technology companies. In recent years, competition has increased
from institutions not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks and bank holding companies. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services
offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. The Company s ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on its ability to attract new employees and retain
and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs.       Government Policies    
  The operations of the Company s various businesses are affected by federal and state legislative changes and by policies of various
regulatory authorities, including the statutes, and the rules and policies of regulatory authorities, of the numerous states in which they operate, the United States and foreign governments. These policies include, for example, statutory maximum
legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ), United States fiscal policy, international currency regulations and monetary policies and capital adequacy and
liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.       Supervision and Regulation    
  U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ), consumers, the stability of the financial system in the
United States, and the health of the national economy, and not for investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.   
         3   

This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws and regulations applicable
to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described below.   
   General  As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act (the  BHC
Act ) and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ). U.S. Bank National Association and its subsidiaries, are subject to regulation and examination
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) and also by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the  CFPB ), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC )
and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) in certain areas.      Supervision and regulation by the
responsible regulatory agency generally include comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of a bank s business and condition, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments and certain types of
activities. U.S. Bank National Association, the Company and the Company s  non-bank  affiliates must undergo regular  on-site  examinations by the appropriate
regulatory agency, which examine for adherence to a range of legal and regulatory compliance responsibilities. If they deem the Company to be operating in a manner that is inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices, the applicable regulatory
agencies can require the entry into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which the Company would be required to
take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions.       Dodd-Frank
Act  Substantial changes to the regulation of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries have occurred as a result of the enactment in 2010 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ).
Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, have had and will continue to have a material effect on the business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulatory framework for financial services companies, and since its enactment has required
significant rulemaking and numerous studies and reports. Among other things, it created a new Financial Stability Oversight Council (the  Council ) with broad authority to make recommendations covering enhanced prudential standards and
more stringent supervision for large bank holding companies and certain  non-bank  financial services companies. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly reduced interchange fees on debit card transactions, changed the
preemption of state laws applicable to national banks, increased the regulation of consumer mortgage banking and made numerous other changes, some of which are discussed below.   
  In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative and regulatory proposals affecting banks have been made in recent years both
domestically and internationally. Among other things, these proposals include significant additional capital and liquidity requirements and limitations on the size or types of activity in which banks may engage.   
   Bank Holding Company Activities  The Company elected to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000, pursuant to
the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the  GLBA ). Under the GLBA, qualifying bank holding companies may engage in, and affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted
for a bank holding company. Under the GLBA s system of functional regulation, the Federal Reserve acts as an umbrella regulator for the Company, and certain of the Company s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional agencies based
on the particular activities of those subsidiaries.      If a financial holding company or a depository institution controlled by
a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and   
         4   

managerial requirements on the financial holding company, and may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that financial holding companies are generally
permitted to conduct. See  Permissible Business Activities  below. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a financial holding company may be required to divest its depository institution subsidiaries, or cease all activities
other than those activities that may be conducted by bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. In addition, the Federal Reserve requires bank holding companies to meet certain applicable capital and management standards.
Failure by the Company to meet these standards could limit the Company from engaging in any new activity or acquiring other companies without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve.   
   Source of Strength  The Dodd-Frank Act codified existing Federal Reserve policy requiring the Company to act as a source of
financial strength to U.S. Bank National Association, and to commit resources to support this subsidiary in circumstances where it might not otherwise do so. However, because the GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company
activities by various regulators, the GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve from requiring payment by a holding company to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the depository institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the
Federal Reserve could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act,  non-bank  subsidiaries of a
holding company that engage in activities permissible for an insured depository institution must be examined and regulated in a manner that is at least as stringent as if the activities were conducted by the lead depository institution of the
holding company.       OCC Heightened Standards  The OCC has issued guidelines establishing heightened standards for large
national banks such as U.S. Bank National Association. The guidelines establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for banks. The OCC may take action against institutions that fail to meet these
standards.       Permissible Business Activities  As a financial holding company, the Company may affiliate with securities
firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include the following: securities
underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the United States
Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.  Complementary activities  are activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and that do
not pose a safety and soundness risk.      The Company generally is not required to obtain Federal Reserve approval to acquire a
company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve. However, the Dodd-Frank Act
added a provision requiring approval if the total consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion. Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than five percent
of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of an unaffiliated bank holding company, bank or savings association.   
   Interstate Banking  Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the  Riegle-Neal
Act ), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an
acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is the
bank holding company s initial entry into the state, more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository institutions in the state (or any lesser or greater amount set by the state).   
  The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines to create interstate branches. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, banks are
permitted to establish new branches in another state to the same extent as banks chartered in that state.   
         5   

Regulatory Approval for Acquisitions  In determining whether to approve a proposed
bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors, including the following: the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects (including current and projected capital ratios and levels);
the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the
Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA  the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities; and the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of
the United States banking or financial system. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, approval of interstate transactions requires that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well-capitalized and well-managed institutions.   
   Enhanced Prudential Standards  The Company is subject to a final rule issued by the Federal Reserve relating to enhanced prudential
standards required under the Dodd-Frank Act for bank holding companies with over $50 billion in consolidated assets. The prudential standards include enhanced risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements,
enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, a requirement to submit a resolution plan, single-counterparty credit limits and stress tests. The rule incorporates the requirement that the Federal Reserve conduct annual supervisory
capital adequacy stress tests of covered companies under baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, and requires covered companies to conduct their own capital adequacy stress tests. The rule provides for notification to a covered company as
to which the Council has determined to impose a   debt-to-equity   ratio of no more than
  15-to-1,   based upon the determination by the Council that (a) such company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and (b) the
imposition of such a requirement is necessary to mitigate the risk that the company poses to the financial stability of the United States.       Dividend Restrictions  The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically, the majority of the Company s operating funds are received in the form of dividends
paid to the Company by U.S. Bank National Association. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks.      In general, dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association and the Company s trust bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are limited by rules that compare dividends to net income
for periods defined by regulation.      The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC also have authority to prohibit or limit the
payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise (including the Company and U.S. Bank National Association), if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light
of the financial condition of the banking organization. Subject to exceptions for well-capitalized and well-managed holding companies, Federal Reserve regulations also require approval of holding company purchases and redemptions of its securities
if the gross consideration paid exceeds 10 percent of consolidated net worth for any  12-month  period.      In addition, Federal Reserve policy on the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases requires that bank holding companies consult with and inform the Federal Reserve in advance of
doing any of the following: declaring and paying dividends that could raise safety and soundness concerns (i.e. declaring and paying dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which dividends are being paid); redeeming or repurchasing capital
instruments when experiencing financial weakness; and redeeming or repurchasing common stock and perpetual preferred stock, if the result will be a net reduction in the amount of such capital instruments outstanding for the quarter in which the
reduction occurs.      In 2010, the Federal Reserve issued an addendum to its policy on dividends, stock redemptions and stock
repurchases that is specifically applicable to the 19 largest bank holding companies (including the Company) that are covered by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. The addendum provides for Federal Reserve review of dividend increases,
implementation of capital repurchase programs and other capital repurchases or redemptions.   
         6   

The supervisory stress tests of the Company conducted by the Federal Reserve as part of its
annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ) process also affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends and make other forms of capital distribution. See  Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  and
 Stress Testing  below.       Capital Requirements  The Company is subject to regulatory capital requirements
established by the Federal Reserve, and U.S. Bank National Association is subject to substantially similar rules established by the OCC. These requirements have changed significantly as a result of standards established by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ), an international organization that has the goal of creating standards for banking regulation, and the implementation of these standards and of relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act by
banking regulators in the United States. Minimum regulatory capital levels will significantly increase as these requirements are implemented and phased in.      Prior to 2014, regulatory capital requirements effective for the Company followed the 1988 capital accord of the Basel Committee known as Basel I. In implementing Basel I, federal banking regulators
adopted risk-based capital and leverage rules that require the   capital-to-assets   ratios of financial institutions to meet certain minimum standards. The risk-based
capital ratio is calculated by allocating assets and specified  off-balance  sheet financial instruments into risk-weighted categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived
as representing greater risk), and is used to determine the amount of a financial institution s total risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ). Under the rules, capital is divided into multiple tiers: common equity tier 1 capital, additional
tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital. The amount of tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital. The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio
guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total  on-balance  sheet assets.      The Federal Reserve and the OCC finalized a rule in 2007 adopting international guidelines established by the Basel Committee known as Basel II. The Basel II framework consists of three pillars:
(a) capital adequacy; (b) supervisory review (including the computation of capital and internal assessment processes); and (c) market discipline (including increased disclosure requirements).   
  In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued a new set of international standards for determining regulatory capital known as Basel III.
Federal banking regulators published the United States Basel III final rule in July 2013 to implement many aspects of these international standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The United States Basel III final rule focuses
regulatory capital on common equity tier 1 capital, introduces new regulatory adjustments and deductions from capital, narrows the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments and makes other changes to the Basel I and Basel II
frameworks. Specifically, Basel III includes two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets: a general standardized approach and more risk-sensitive advanced approaches, with the Company s capital adequacy being evaluated
against the Basel III methodology that is most restrictive. The Federal Reserve approved a final rule, effective April 1, 2014, revising the market risk capital rule, which addresses the market risk of significant trading activities, so that it
conforms to the Basel III capital framework.      Beginning January 1, 2014, the regulatory capital requirements for the
Company follow Basel III, subject to certain transition provisions from Basel I over the following four years to full implementation by January 1, 2018. Under the United States Basel III final rule, the Company is subject to a minimum common
equity tier 1 capital ratio (common equity tier 1 capital to RWA) of 4.5 percent, a minimum tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0 percent and a minimum total capital ratio of 8.0 percent on a fully
 phased-in  basis. In addition, the final rule provides that certain new items be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and certain Basel I deductions be modified. The Company is also subject to a
2.5 percent common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed, up to a 2.5 percent common equity tier 1 countercyclical buffer on a fully  phased-in  basis by 2019. United States
banking organizations are subject to a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0 percent. The final rule also subjects banking organizations calculating their capital requirements using advanced approaches, including the Company,
  
         7   

to a minimum Basel III supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0 percent that takes into account both  on-balance  sheet and certain  off-balance  sheet exposures.      The United States banking regulators also published final
regulations in June 2011 implementing Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Collins Amendment, which requires that certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to minimum capital
requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. Prior to 2015, this minimum  capital floor  was based on Basel I. On January 1, 2015, the United States Basel III final rule replaced the
Basel  I-based   capital floor  with a standardized approach that, among other things, modifies the existing risk weights for certain types of asset classes. The  capital floor  applies to
the calculation of both minimum risk-based capital requirements as well as the capital conservation buffer and, if deployed, the countercyclical capital buffer.      In September 2014, United States banking regulators approved a final rule that enhanced the regulatory Supplementary Leverage Ratio ( SLR ) requirement for banks calculating capital adequacy
using advanced approaches under Basel III. The SLR is defined as tier 1 capital divided by total leverage exposure, which includes both  on-  and  off-balance  sheet
exposures. The Company began calculating and reporting its SLR beginning in the first quarter of 2015, however it became subject to the minimum SLR requirement on January 1, 2018. At December 31, 2017, the Company exceeded the applicable
minimum SLR requirement.      In December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized a package of revisions to the Basel III framework,
unofficially known as Basel IV. The changes are meant to improve the calculation of risk-weighted assets and improve the comparability of capital ratios by (a) enhancing the robustness and risk sensitivity of the standardized approaches for
credit risk, credit valuation adjustment ( CVA ) risk and operational risk; (b) constraining the use of the internal model approaches, by placing limits on certain inputs used to calculate capital requirements under the internal
ratings-based ( IRB ) approach for credit risk and by removing the use of the internal model approaches for CVA risk and for operational risk; (c) introducing a leverage ratio buffer to further limit the leverage of global
systemically important banks  ( G-SIB   and (d) replacing the existing Basel II output floor with a more robust risk-sensitive floor based on the Committee s revised Basel III standardized
approaches. January 1, 2022 is the implementation date for the revised standardized approach for credit risk and leverage ratio as well as the IRB, CVA, operational risk, and market risk frameworks. The output floor will be subject to a
transitional period beginning in January 1, 2022, with full implementation by January 1, 2027. Federal banking regulators are expected to undertake one or more rulemakings in future years to implement these revisions in the United States.
     For additional information regarding the Company s regulatory capital, see  Capital Management  in the 2017
Annual Report.       Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  The Federal Reserve s Capital Plans rule requires large
bank holding companies with assets in excess of $50 billion to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis and to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve for capital distributions proposed in the capital plan. These capital
plans consist of a number of mandatory elements, including an assessment of a company s sources and uses of capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon assuming both expected and stressful conditions; a detailed description of a company s
process for assessing capital adequacy; a demonstration of a company s ability to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a tier 1 common ratio of 5.0 percent under expected and stressful conditions; and a
demonstration of a company s ability to achieve, readily and without difficulty, the minimum capital ratios and capital buffers under the Basel III framework as it comes into effect in the United States.   
  The Federal Reserve has issued a final rule specifying how large bank holding companies, including the Company, should incorporate the
United States Basel III capital standards into their capital plans. Among other things, the final rule requires large bank holding companies to project both their common equity tier 1 capital   

         8   

ratio using the methodology under existing capital guidelines and their common equity tier 1 capital ratio under the United States Basel III capital standards, as such standards phase in over the
nine-quarter planning horizon.      The Company will submit its 2018 capital plan to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2018, in
accordance with instructions from the Federal Reserve. Applicable stress testing rules require the Federal Reserve to publish the results of its assessment of the Company s capital plan, including its planned capital distributions, no later
than June 30, 2018.       Stress Testing  The Federal Reserve s CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress
testing framework require large bank holding companies such as the Company to conduct  company-run  stress tests and subject them to supervisory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve. Among other things,
the  company-run  stress tests employ stress scenarios developed by the Company as well as stress scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended
to normalize capital distributions across large United States bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank supervisory stress tests employing its adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios and internal supervisory
models. The Federal Reserve s CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests incorporate the Company s planned capital actions and the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, respectively. The Federal Reserve and the Company are required to
publish the results of the annual supervisory and annual  company-run  stress tests, respectively, no later than June 30 of each year. In addition, all large bank holding companies are required to submit a  mid-cycle   company-run  stress test employing stress scenarios developed by the Company. The results of this stress test must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for review in
early October of each year. The Company is required to publish its results of this stress test no later than the end of November of each year. The Federal Reserve currently publishes summaries of supervisory stress test results for each large bank
holding company under both the adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios developed by the Federal Reserve.      National banks
with assets in excess of $50 billion are required to submit annual  company-run  stress test results to the OCC concurrently with their parent bank holding company s CCAR submission to the Federal
Reserve. The stress test is based on the OCC s stress scenarios (which are typically the same as the Federal Reserve s stress scenarios) and capital actions that are appropriate for the economic conditions assumed in each scenario. U.S.
Bank National Association will submit its stress test in accordance with regulatory requirements by April 5, 2018. The Company is required to publish the results of this stress test no later than June 30, 2018.   
   Basel III Liquidity Requirements  In 2009, the Basel Committee proposed two minimum standards for limiting liquidity risk: the
Liquidity Coverage Ratio ( LCR ) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio ( NSFR ). The LCR is designed to ensure that bank holding companies have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event
lasting for 30 calendar days. The NSFR is designed to promote stable, longer-term funding of assets and business activities over a  one-year  time horizon.   
  The federal banking regulators have jointly issued a final rule that implements the LCR in the United States. The rule applies the LCR
standards to bank holding companies and their domestic bank subsidiaries calculating their capital requirements using advanced approaches, including the Company and U.S. Bank National Association. The LCR standards in the rule differ in certain
respects from the Basel Committee s version of the LCR, including a narrower definition of high-quality liquid assets, different prescribed cash inflow and outflow assumptions for certain types of instruments and transactions, a different
methodology for calculating the LCR and a shorter  phase-in  schedule that ended on December 31, 2016. In June 2016, the federal banking regulators proposed a rule to implement a NSFR requirement in the
United States that would apply to the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, consistent with the Basel Committee NSFR standard finalized in October 2014. The Basel Committee contemplated that the NSFR, including any revisions, would be
implemented as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. Federal banking regulators continue to work on finalizing a rule to implement the NSFR standards in the United States.   
   Recovery Plans  In September 2016, the OCC finalized a rule that establishes enforceable guidelines for recovery planning by
insured national banks, insured federal savings associations, and insured federal branches   
         9   

of foreign banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, which includes U.S. Bank National Association. The guidelines provide that a covered bank should develop and
maintain a recovery plan that is appropriate for its individual risk profile, size, activities, and complexity, including the complexity of its organizational and legal entity structure. The guidelines state that a recovery plan should
(a) establish triggers, which are quantitative or qualitative indicators of the risk or existence of severe stress that should always be escalated to management or the board of directors, as appropriate, for purposes of initiating a response;
(b) identify a wide range of credible options that a covered bank could undertake to restore financial and operational strength and viability; and (c) address escalation procedures, management reports, and communication procedures. The
board of U.S. Bank National Association approved a recovery plan pursuant to these guidelines in December 2017.   
   Supervisory Ratings  Federal banking regulators regularly examine the Company to evaluate its financial condition and monitor its
compliance with laws and regulatory policies. Key products of such exams are supervisory ratings of the Company s overall condition, commonly referred to as the CAMELS rating for U.S. Bank National Association (which reflects the OCC s
evaluation of certain components of the bank s condition) and the RFI/C(D) rating for U.S. Bancorp (which reflects the Federal Reserve s evaluation of certain components of the holding company s condition). These ratings are
considered to be confidential supervisory information and disclosure to third parties is not allowed without permission of the issuing regulator. Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management practices may be
incorporated into these supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these ratings could limit the Company s ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time, require new or additional regulatory approvals
before engaging in certain other business activities or investments, affect U.S. Bank National Association s deposit insurance assessment rate, and impose additional recordkeeping and corporate governance requirements, as well as generally
increase regulatory scrutiny of the Company. In August 2017, the Federal Reserve proposed a new supervisory rating system that would govern the Federal Reserve s supervision of all bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of
$50 billion or more and United States intermediate holding companies of foreign banking organizations, as well as certain savings and loan holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Under the proposal, ratings would be assigned
for each of three component categories: (a) Capital Planning and Positions, (b) Liquidity Risk Management and Positions, and (c) Governance and Controls. However, no composite rating would be assigned, and this proposal is still under
consideration.      In August 2017, the Federal Reserve also issued proposed guidance with respect to its expectations regarding
the supervisory role of boards of directors of large financial institutions. In addition, in January 2018, the Federal Reserve made a proposal relating to the supervisory responsibilities of members of senior and business line management for risk
management and controls at large financial institutions. Both of these proposals are meant to set regulatory expectations for the  Governance and Controls  component of the new rating system that has been proposed by the Federal Reserve.
      Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 (the  FDICIA ) provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates (including parent holding companies) by federal banking regulators. As part of that framework, the FDICIA requires the relevant federal
banking regulator to take  prompt corrective action  with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.      Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the  prompt corrective action  rules generally depend upon an institution s classification within five capital
categories. The United States Basel III final rule revises the capital ratio thresholds in the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new Basel III capital ratios. This aspect of the United States Basel III rule became effective on
January 1, 2015. The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies such as the Company; however, subject to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to the GLBA, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action
at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding
  
         10   

company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary s capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those
guarantee commitments.       Deposit Insurance  Under current FDIC regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a
risk category based on capital and supervisory measures. A depository institution is assessed premiums by the FDIC based on its risk category and the amount of deposits held. In 2009, the FDIC revised the method for calculating the assessment rate
for depository institutions by introducing several adjustments to an institution s initial base assessment rate. The Dodd-Frank Act altered the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments from a deposit to an asset base, and seeks to fund
part of the cost of the Dodd-Frank Act by increasing the reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund to 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that FDIC assessments be set in a manner that offsets the cost
of the assessment increases for institutions with consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. This provision effectively places the increased assessment costs on larger financial institutions such as the Company.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 per account ownership type to $250,000. In
February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule implementing the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, which provides for use of a risk scorecard to determine deposit premiums. The effect of the rule was to increase the FDIC premiums paid by U.S. Bank National
Association. In 2014, the FDIC adopted a final rule revising its deposit insurance assessment system to reflect changes in the regulatory capital rules that became effective in 2015, with additional revisions to become effective in 2018. The rule
(a) revises the ratios and ratio thresholds relating to capital evaluations; (b) revises the assessment base calculation for custodial banks; and (c) requires that all highly complex institutions measure counterparty exposure for
assessment purposes using the Basel III standardized approach in the regulatory capital rules.      In March 2016, in order to
bring the reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund to 1.35 percent, the FDIC finalized a surcharge on the quarterly assessments of insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. The surcharges
were first imposed in the third quarter of 2016, the calendar quarter after the reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund first reached or exceeded 1.15 percent. The surcharge imposed on each insured depository institution equals an annual
rate of 4.5 basis points applied to the institution s assessment base (with certain adjustments). The FDIC expects that these surcharges should be sufficient to raise the reserve ratio to 1.35 percent in approximately eight quarters (i.e.,
before the end of 2018). If, contrary to the FDIC s expectations, the reserve ratio does not reach 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018, the FDIC plans to impose a shortfall assessment on insured depository institutions with total
consolidated assets of $10 billion or more on March 31, 2019.       Powers of the FDIC Upon Insolvency of an Insured
Institution  If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power to (a) transfer any of the depository institution s assets and
liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution s creditors; (b) enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (c) repudiate or disaffirm any contracts (if
the FDIC determines that performance of the contract is burdensome and that the repudiation or disaffirmation is necessary to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution). These provisions would be applicable to obligations and
liabilities of the Company s insured depository institution subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association.       Depositor
Preference  Under federal law, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of a receiver of the institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders of domestic deposit
liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of the depositors) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including holders of publicly issued senior or subordinated debt and depositors in  non-domestic  offices. As a result, those debtholders and depositors would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors in domestic offices of the depository
institution.   
         11   

Orderly Liquidation Authority  The Dodd-Frank Act created a new framework for the
orderly liquidation of a covered financial company by the FDIC as receiver. A covered financial company is a financial company (including a bank holding company, but not an insured depository institution), in situations where the Secretary of the
Treasury determines (upon the written recommendation of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve and after consultation with the President of the United States) that the conditions set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act regarding the potential impact on financial
stability of the financial company s failure have been met. The rule sets forth a comprehensive method for the receivership of a covered financial company. The Company is a financial company and, therefore, is potentially subject to the orderly
liquidation authority of the FDIC.       Resolution Plans  The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have adopted a rule to implement
the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding annual resolution plans for bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more  (so-called   Living Wills ). The rule requires each covered
company to produce a contingency resolution plan for the rapid and orderly resolution of the company in the event of material financial distress or failure. Resolution plans must include information regarding the manner and extent to which any
insured depository institution affiliated with the company is adequately protected from risks arising from the activities of any  non-bank  subsidiaries of the company; full descriptions of ownership structure,
assets, liabilities and contractual obligations of the company; identification of the cross-guarantees tied to different securities; identification of major counterparties; a process for determining to whom the collateral of the company is pledged;
and any other information that the Federal Reserve and the FDIC jointly require by rule or order. Plans must analyze baseline, adverse, and severely adverse economic condition impacts. Plans must demonstrate, in the event of material financial
distress or failure of the covered company, a reorganization or liquidation of the covered company under the federal bankruptcy code that could be accomplished within a reasonable period of time and in a manner that substantially mitigates the risk
that the failure of the covered company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. Covered companies and their subsidiaries are subject to more stringent capital, leverage and liquidity requirements or
restrictions on growth, activities or operations if they fail to file an acceptable plan (i.e., the plan is determined to not be credible and deficiencies are not cured in a timely manner). Plans must typically be updated annually.   
  The FDIC has also adopted regulations under its own authority requiring an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more
in total assets to submit periodically to the FDIC a contingency plan for the resolution of such institution in the event of its failure. The rule requires a covered depository institution to submit a resolution plan that should enable the FDIC, as
receiver, to resolve the institution under applicable receivership provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution s
failure, maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets and minimizes the amount of any loss to be realized by the institution s creditors.   
  The Company filed its Dodd-Frank Act resolution plan in December 2017, and will periodically revise its resolution plans as required
under each rule.       Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions  An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held
liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with that institution being  in default  or  in danger of default  (commonly referred to
as  cross-guarantee  liability). An FDIC claim for cross-guarantee liability against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against the depository institution.
      Transactions with Affiliates  There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which the Company and its  non-bank  subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with U.S. Bank National Association. Under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, U.S. Bank National Association (and its
subsidiaries) is subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its  non-bank  affiliates. Additionally, transactions
between U.S. Bank National Association and its  non-bank  affiliates are required to be on arm s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness.   
         12   

Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions  The Company is subject to several federal laws
that are designed to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, and to restrict transactions with persons, companies, or foreign governments sanctioned by United States authorities. This category of laws includes the Bank Secrecy Act (the
 BSA ), the Money Laundering Control Act, the USA PATRIOT Act (collectively,  AML laws ), and implementing regulations for the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Trading with the Enemy Act, as administered by the
United States Treasury Department s Office of Foreign Assets Control ( sanctions laws ).      As implemented by
federal banking and securities regulators and the Department of the Treasury, AML laws obligate depository institutions and broker-dealers to verify their customers  identity, conduct customer due diligence, report on suspicious activity, file
reports of transactions in currency, and conduct enhanced due diligence on certain accounts. Sanctions laws prohibit persons of the United States from engaging in any transaction with a restricted person or restricted country. Depository
institutions and broker-dealers are required by their respective federal regulators to maintain policies and procedures in order to ensure compliance with the above obligations. Federal regulators regularly examine BSA/Anti-Money Laundering
( AML ) and sanctions compliance programs to ensure their adequacy and effectiveness, and the frequency and extent of such examinations and the remedial actions resulting therefrom have been increasing.   
   Non-compliance  with sanctions laws and/or AML laws or failure to maintain an adequate BSA/AML
compliance program can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage, and federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a proposed bank merger,
acquisition, restructuring, or other expansionary activity. There have been a number of significant enforcement actions against banks, broker-dealers and  non-bank  financial institutions with respect to
sanctions laws and AML laws and some have resulted in substantial penalties, including against the Company and U.S. Bank National Association. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2017 Annual Report.   
   Community Reinvestment Act  U.S. Bank National Association is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA,
banks have a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in
 low-income  and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, and does not limit an institution s discretion to develop the
types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community in a manner consistent with the CRA.      The OCC regularly assesses U.S. Bank National Association on its record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including
 low-income  and moderate-income neighborhoods. The assessment also is considered when the Federal Reserve or OCC reviews applications by banking institutions to acquire, merge or consolidate with another
banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits, or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the
Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and those records may be the basis for denying the application.   
  U.S. Bank National Association received a  Satisfactory  CRA rating in its most recent examination, covering the period from
January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. The OCC has commenced it most recent CRA exam in 2017, the results of which will be made public upon completion.       Regulation of Brokerage, Investment Advisory and Insurance Activities  The Company conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United States through U.S. Bancorp
Investments, Inc.   
         13   

( USBII ) and other subsidiaries. These activities are subject to regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other authorities, including state regulators.
These regulations generally cover licensing of securities personnel, interactions with customers, trading operations and periodic examinations.      Securities regulators impose capital requirements on USBII and monitor its financial operations with periodic financial reviews. In addition, USBII is a member of the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation, which oversees the liquidation of member broker-dealers that close when the broker-dealer is bankrupt or in financial trouble and imposes reporting requirements and assessments on USBII.   
  The operations of the First American family of funds, the Company s proprietary money market fund complex, also are subject to
regulation by the SEC. In July 2014, the SEC finalized rules regarding money market fund reform. The final rules require a floating net asset value for institutional prime and  tax-free  money market funds. The
rules also give the board of directors of the money market funds the ability to limit redemptions during periods of stress (allowing for the use of liquidity fees and redemption gates during such times). Other changes include tightened
diversification requirements and enhanced disclosure requirements.      The Company s operations in the areas of insurance
brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities, including the licensing of insurance brokers and agents.   
   Regulation of Derivatives and the Swaps Marketplace  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has issued and will continue to issue
additional rules regarding the regulation of the swaps marketplace and   over-the-counter   derivatives. The rules require swap dealers and major swap participants to
register with the CFTC and require them to meet robust business conduct standards to lower risk and promote market integrity, to meet certain recordkeeping and reporting requirements so that regulators can better monitor the markets, and to be
subject to certain capital and margin requirements. U.S. Bank National Association is a registered swap dealer.      In addition,
the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Farm Credit Administration have finalized a rule concerning swap margin and capital requirements. The rule incorporates many aspects of the international framework
for margin requirements for  non-centrally  cleared derivatives issued in September 2013 by the Basel Committee and the Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions. The final rule mandates
the exchange of initial and variation margin for  non-cleared  swaps and  non-cleared  security-based swaps between swap entities regulated by the five agencies and certain
counterparties. The amount of margin will vary based on the relative risk of the  non-cleared  swap or  non-cleared  security-based swap. The final rule phased in the
variation margin requirements between September 1, 2016, and March 1, 2017. The initial margin requirements will phase in over four years, beginning on September 1, 2016. Additionally, the agencies have issued a final rule relating to
the rule s exemption from margin requirements for certain  non-cleared  swaps and  non-cleared  security-based swaps used for hedging purposes by commercial  end-users  and certain other counterparties.      Other swaps  requirements have been
modified by legislation. Section 716 of the Dodd-Frank Act required covered United States banks acting as dealers in commodity swaps, equity swaps and certain credit default swaps to  push out  such activities and conduct them through
one or more  non-bank  affiliates. The Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 narrowed the  push-out  requirements in Section 716 to only
 structured finance swaps.        The Volcker Rule  In December 2013, the SEC, the CFTC, the Federal Reserve, the
OCC and the FDIC jointly issued a final rule to implement the  so-called   Volcker Rule  under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading, and
prohibits certain interests in, or relationships with, hedge funds or private equity funds. The final rule also requires annual attestation by a banking entity s Chief Executive Officer that the banking entity has in place processes to
establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify a compliance program established in a manner reasonably designed to achieve   
         14   

compliance with the final rule. The final rule became effective on April 1, 2014, and applies to the Company, U.S. Bank National Association and their affiliates. The Company has a Volcker
compliance program in place that covers all of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including U.S. Bank National Association.   
   Financial Privacy  Under the requirements imposed by the GLBA, the Company and its subsidiaries are required periodically to
disclose to their retail customers the Company s policies and practices with respect to the sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates and others, and the confidentiality and security of that information. Under the GLBA,
retail customers also must be given the opportunity to  opt out  of information-sharing arrangements with  non-affiliates,  subject to certain exceptions set forth in the GLBA.   
   Consumer Protection Regulation  Retail banking activities are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect
consumers, including laws related to fair lending and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale, or provision of consumer financial products and services. These laws and regulations include
the   Truth-in-Lending,     Truth-in-Savings,   Home Mortgage Disclosure, Equal Credit
Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practices, Real Estate Settlement Procedures, Electronic Funds Transfer, Right to Financial Privacy and Servicemembers Civil Relief Acts. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for
by banks are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates.       Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
 U.S. Bank National Association and its subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the CFPB with respect to federal consumer laws, including many of the laws and regulations described above. The CFPB has undertaken numerous
rule-making and other initiatives, including issuing informal guidance and taking enforcement actions against certain financial institutions. The CFPB s rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority has affected and will continue to impact
financial institutions involved in the provision of consumer financial products and services, including the Company, U.S. Bank National Association, and the Company s other subsidiaries. These regulatory activities may limit the types of
financial services and products the Company may offer, which in turn may reduce the Company s revenues.       Other
Supervision and Regulation  The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), both as administered
by the SEC, by virtue of the Company s status as a public company. As a listed company on the New York Stock Exchange (the  NYSE ), the Company is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies.   
   Website Access to SEC Reports       U.S. Bancorp s internet website can be found at  usbank.com . U.S. Bancorp makes available free of charge on its website its annual reports on Form  10-K, 
quarterly reports on Form  10-Q,  current reports on Form  8-K,  and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act,
as well as all other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.       Additional Information       Additional information in response to this
Item 1 can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on pages 61 to 65 under the heading  Line of Business Financial Review.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 1A.   
      Risk Factors            Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on pages 146 to 156 under the heading  Risk Factors.  That information is incorporated into this report
by reference.   
         15   

Item 1B.   
      Unresolved Staff Comments            None.       

Item 2.   
      Properties            U.S. Bancorp and its significant subsidiaries occupy headquarter offices under a long-term lease in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company also leases ten freestanding operations centers in Cincinnati,
Denver, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Overland Park, Portland and St. Paul. The Company owns 11 principal operations centers in Cincinnati, Coeur d Alene, Fargo, Milwaukee, Olathe, Owensboro, Portland, St. Louis and St. Paul. At December 31,
2017, the Company s subsidiaries owned and operated a total of 1,507 facilities and leased an additional 1,946 facilities. The Company believes its current facilities are adequate to meet its needs. Additional information with respect to the
Company s premises and equipment is presented in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2017 Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 3.   
      Legal Proceedings            Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2017 Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this report
by reference.       

Item 4.   
      Mine Safety Disclosures            Not Applicable.       Capital Covenants    
  The Company has entered into several transactions involving the issuance of capital securities ( Capital Securities ) by certain
Delaware statutory trusts formed by the Company (the  Trusts ), the issuance by the Company of preferred stock ( Preferred Stock ) or the issuance by an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association of preferred stock
exchangeable for the Company s Preferred Stock under certain circumstances ( Exchangeable Preferred Stock ). Simultaneously with the closing of certain of those transactions, the Company entered into a replacement capital covenant, as
amended from time to time (as amended, each, a  Replacement Capital Covenant  and collectively, the  Replacement Capital Covenants ) for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness
of the Company or U.S. Bank National Association (the  Covered Debt ). Each of the Replacement Capital Covenants provides that neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries (including any of the Trusts) will repay, redeem or purchase any
of the Preferred Stock, Exchangeable Preferred Stock or the Capital Securities and the securities held by the Trust (the  Other Securities ), as applicable, on or before the date specified in the applicable Replacement Capital Covenant,
unless the Company has received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that (a) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Preferred Stock, the Exchangeable
Preferred Stock, the Capital Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase, and (b) the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, if such approval is then required by the
Federal Reserve or, in the case of the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the approval of the OCC.      The Company will provide a copy
of any Replacement Capital Covenant to a holder of the relevant Covered Debt. For copies of any of these documents, holders should write to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, or call  (866) 775-9668.    
         16   

The following table identifies the closing date for each transaction, issuer, series of
Capital Securities, Preferred Stock or Exchangeable Preferred Stock issued in the relevant transaction, Other Securities, if any, and applicable Covered Debt as of February 22, 2018, for those securities that remain outstanding.   

(a)   
   USB Realty Corp. is an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association.      

(b)   
   Under certain circumstances, upon the direction of the OCC, each share of USB Realty Corp. s Series A Preferred Stock will be automatically exchanged for one
share of U.S. Bancorp s Series C  Non-cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock.      
         17   

PART II    

Item 5.   
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities         
  On June 28, 2017, the Company announced its Board of Directors had approved an authorization to repurchase up to $2.6 billion of
its common stock, from July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018. Except as otherwise indicated in the table below, all shares repurchased during the fourth quarter of 2017 were repurchased under this authorization. The following table provides a
detailed analysis of all shares repurchased by the Company or any affiliated purchaser during the fourth quarter of 2017:       

(a)   
   Includes 50,000 shares of common stock purchased, at an average price per share of $53.43, in open-market transactions by U.S. Bank National Association, the
Company s banking subsidiary, in its capacity as trustee of the Company s Employee Retirement Savings Plan.      

(b)   
   Includes 50,000 shares of common stock purchased, at an average price per share of $51.76, in open-market transactions by U.S. Bank National Association in its
capacity as trustee of the Company s Employee Retirement Savings Plan      

(c)   
   Includes 100,000 shares of common stock purchased, at an average price per share of $52.60, in open-market transactions by U.S. Bank National Association in its
capacity as trustee of the Company s Employee Retirement Savings Plan          Additional Information    
  Additional information in response to this Item 5 can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on page 143 under the heading
 U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited).  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 6.   
      Selected Financial Data            Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on page 23 under the heading  Table 1   Selected Financial Data.  That information is incorporated
into this report by reference.       

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
  Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on pages 22 to 71 under the heading
 Management s Discussion and Analysis.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 7A.   
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         
  Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on pages 38 to 60 under the heading
 Corporate Risk Profile.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   
         18   

Item 8.   
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on pages 72 to 145 under the headings  Report of Management,   Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm,   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,   U.S.
Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income   Five Year Summary (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data
(Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)  and  U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited) . That information is incorporated into this report by
reference.       

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         
  None.       

Item 9A.   
      Controls and Procedures            Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on page 71 under the heading  Controls and Procedures  and on pages 72 and 74 under the headings
 Report of Management  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         None.
  
         19   

PART III    

Item 10.   
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance             Code of Ethics and Business Conduct       The Company has adopted a Code of
Ethics and Business Conduct that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be found at  www.usbank.com  by clicking on
 About Us  and then clicking on  Investor Relations  and then clicking on  Corporate Governance  and then clicking on  Code of Ethics.  The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
Item 5.05 of Form  8-K  regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and
principal accounting officer by posting such information on its website, at the address and location specified above.       Executive Officers
of the Registrant         Andrew Cecere        Mr. Cecere is President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 57, has served as President of U.S. Bancorp since January 2016 and Chief Executive Officer since April 2017.
He also served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from January 2015 to January 2016 and was U.S. Bancorp s Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer from February 2007 until January 2015. Until that time, he served as Vice Chairman,
Wealth Management and Investment Services of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. Previously, he had served as an executive officer of the former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial
Officer from May 2000 through February 2001.        Jennie P. Carlson     
  Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 57, has served in
this position since January 2002. Until that time, she served as Executive Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From 1995
until the merger, she was General Counsel and Secretary of Firstar Corporation and Star Banc Corporation.        James L.
Chosy        Mr. Chosy is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Chosy, 54, has
served in this position since March 2013. He also served as Corporate Secretary of U.S, Bancorp from March 2013 until April 2016. From 2001 to 2013, he served as the General Counsel and Secretary of Piper Jaffray Companies. From 1995 to 2001,
Mr. Chosy was Vice President and Associate General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp, having also served as Assistant Secretary of U.S. Bancorp from 1995 through 2000 and as Secretary from 2000 until 2001.   
    Terrance R. Dolan        Mr. Dolan is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Dolan, 56, has served in this position since August 2016. From July 2010 to July 2016, he served as Vice Chairman,
Wealth Management and Investment Services, of U.S. Bancorp. From September 1998 to July 2010, Mr. Dolan served as U.S. Bancorp s Controller. He additionally held the title of Executive Vice President from January 2002 until June 2010 and
Senior Vice President from September 1998 until January 2002.        John R. Elmore     
  Mr. Elmore is Vice Chairman, Community Banking and Branch Delivery, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Elmore, 61, has served in this
position since March 2013. From 1999 to 2013, he served as Executive Vice President, Community Banking, of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor company, Firstar Corporation.   
         20   

Leslie V. Godridge     
  Ms. Godridge is Vice Chairman, Corporate and Commercial Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Godridge, 62, has served in this position
since January 2016. From February 2013 until December 2015, she served as Executive Vice President, National Corporate Specialized Industries and Global Treasury Management, of U.S. Bancorp. From February 2007, when she joined U.S. Bancorp, until
January 2013, Ms. Godridge served as Executive Vice President, National Corporate and Institutional Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she served as Senior Executive Vice President and a member of the Executive Committee at The Bank
of New York, where she was head of BNY Asset Management, Private Banking, Consumer Banking and Regional Commercial Banking from 2004 to 2006.        Gunjan Kedia        Ms. Kedia is Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and
Investment Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Kedia, 47, has served in this position since joining U.S. Bancorp in December 2016. From October 2008 until May 2016, she served as Executive Vice President of State Street Corporation where she led the
core investment servicing business in North and South America and served as a member of State Street s management committee, its senior most strategy and policy committee. Previously, Ms. Kedia was an Executive Vice President of global
product management at Bank of New York Mellon from 2004 to 2008.        James B. Kelligrew     
  Mr. Kelligrew is Vice Chairman, Corporate and Commercial Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Kelligrew, 52, has served in this
position since January 2016. From March 2014 until December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President, Fixed Income and Capital Markets, of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Executive Vice President, Credit Fixed Income, of U.S. Bancorp from May 2009
to March 2014. Prior to that time, he held various leadership positions with Wells Fargo Securities from 2003 to 2009, and with Bank of America Securities from 1993 to 2003.        Shailesh M. Kotwal        Mr. Kotwal is Vice Chairman, Payment
Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Kotwal, 53, has served in this position since joining U.S. Bancorp in March 2015. From July 2008 until May 2014, he served as Executive Vice President of TD Bank Group with responsibility for retail banking
products and services and as Chair of its enterprise payments council. From 2006 until 2008, he served as President, International, of eFunds Corporation. Previously, Mr. Kotwal served in various leadership roles at American Express Company
from 1989 until 2006, including responsibility for operations in North and South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific regions.   
    P.W. Parker        Mr. Parker is Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 61, has served in this position since December 2013. From October 2007 until December 2013 he served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp. From March 2005 until October 2007, he served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President of Credit
Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp since January 2002.        Katherine B. Quinn     
  Ms. Quinn is Vice Chairman and Chief Administration Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Quinn, 53, has served in this position since
April 2017. From September 2013 to April 2017, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Reputation Officer of U.S. Bancorp and has served on U.S. Bancorp s Managing Committee since January 2015. From September 2010 until
January 2013, she served as Chief Marketing Officer   
         21   

of WellPoint, Inc. (now known as Anthem, Inc.), having served as Head of Corporate Marketing of WellPoint from July 2005 until September 2010. Prior to that time, she served as Chief Marketing
and Strategy Officer at The Hartford from 2003 until 2005.        Mark G. Runkel     
  Mr. Runkel is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Runkel, 41, has served in this
position since December 2013. From February 2011 until December 2013, he served as Senior Vice President and Credit Risk Group Manager of U.S. Bancorp Retail and Payment Services Credit Risk Management, having served as Senior Vice President and
Risk Manager of U.S. Bancorp Retail and Small Business Credit Risk Management from June 2009 until February 2011. From March 2005 until May 2009, he served as Vice President and Risk Manager of U.S. Bancorp.   
    Jeffry H. von Gillern        Mr. von Gillern is Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. von Gillern, 52, has served in this position since July 2010. From April 2001, when he joined
U.S. Bancorp, until July 2010, Mr. von Gillern served as Executive Vice President of U.S. Bancorp, additionally serving as Chief Information Officer from July 2007 until July 2010.   
    Timothy A. Welsh        Mr. Welsh is Vice Chairman, Consumer Banking Sales and Support, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Welsh, 52, has served in this position since joining U.S. Bancorp in July 2017. From July 2006 until
June 2017, he served as a Senior Partner at McKinsey   Company where he specialized in financial services and the consumer experience. Previously, Mr. Welsh served as a Partner at McKinsey   Company from 1999 to 2006.
      Additional Information       Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Other Matters   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance,   Proposal 1  Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Committee Responsibilities  and  Corporate Governance   Committee Member Qualifications.  That information is incorporated
into this report by reference.       

Item 11.   
      Executive Compensation            Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report, 
 Executive Compensation  and  Director Compensation.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   
         22   

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters          
   Equity Compensation Plan Information       The following table summarizes information regarding the Company s equity compensation plans in effect as of December 31, 2017:   

(2)   
   Includes shares underlying performance-based restricted stock units (awarded to the members of the Company s Managing Committee and settled in shares of the
Company s common stock on a   one-for-one   basis) and restricted stock units (settled in shares of the Company s common stock on a
  one-for-one   basis) under the 2015 Plan, the 2007 Plan and the 2001 Plan. No exercise price is paid upon vesting, and thus, no exercise price is included in the table.
         Includes an aggregate upward adjustment of 71,343 units subsequent to December 31, 2017, made to
performance-based restricted stock units granted in 2017, to reflect the difference between (a) the number of units earned based on actual 2017 Company performance compared to absolute and relative targets set forth in each recipient s
award agreement and (b) the target number of units granted to Managing Committee members in February 2017.        

(3)   
   The 37,178,340 shares available for future issuance are reserved under the 2015 Plan. Future awards under the 2015 Plan may be made in the form of stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards, dividend equivalents, stock awards, or other stock-based awards.      

(4)   
   These shares of common stock are issuable pursuant to various current and former deferred compensation plans of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor entities. No
exercise price is paid when shares are issued pursuant to the deferred compensation plans.          The deferred
compensation plans allow  non-employee  directors and members of senior management to defer all or part of their compensation until the earlier of retirement or termination of employment. The deferred
compensation is deemed to be invested in one of several investment alternatives at the option of the participant, including shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. Deferred compensation deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp stock will be received in
the form of shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock at the time of distribution, unless the Company chooses cash payment.    
         23   

The 496,578 shares included in the table assume that participants in the plans whose
deferred compensation had been deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp common stock had elected to receive all of that deferred compensation in shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock on December 31, 2017. The U.S. Bank Executive Employees Deferred
Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) and the U.S. Bank Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) are the Company s only deferred compensation plans under which compensation may currently be deferred.    
   Additional Information    
  Additional information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Proxy Statement under the heading  Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.       

Item 13.   
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence          
  Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Corporate Governance  
Director Independence,   Corporate Governance   Committee Member Qualifications  and  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   

Item 14.   
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services             Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the Proxy Statement under the headings  Audit Committee Report and Payment of Fees to Auditor   Fees to Independent Auditor  and
 Audit Committee Report and Payment of Fees to Auditor   Administration of Engagement of Independent Auditor.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.   
         24   

PART IV    

Item 15.   
      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules             List of documents filed as part of this report       1. Financial Statements    

Report of Management          

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Financial Statements      

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income   Five Year Summary (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)      

U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)          

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited)      
   2. Financial Statement Schedules       All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.   
   3. Exhibits    
  Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the exhibits to this report upon payment of a fee covering the Company s reasonable expenses
in furnishing the exhibits. You can request exhibits by writing to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402.       

Exhibit   
   Number    
      
     Description     

(1)  3.1    
      
   Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to  Form 8-K  filed on April   20, 2017.    

(1)  3.2    
      
   Amended and Restated Bylaws. Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Form  8-K
  filed on January   20, 2016.    

4.1    
      
  [Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation  S-K,  copies of instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt are not filed.
U.S. Bancorp agrees to furnish a copy thereof to the SEC upon request.]    
         25   

26   

27   

28   

29   

Exhibit   
   Number    
      
     Description     

32    
      
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350 as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
 Act of 2002.     

101    
      
  Financial statements from the Annual Report on Form  10-K  of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2017, formatted in Extensible
Business Reporting Language: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity,
(v) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

(1)   
   Exhibit has been previously filed with the SEC and is incorporated herein as an exhibit by reference to the prior filing.      

(2)   
   Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.      
         30   

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on February 22, 2018, on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

U.S. BANCORP    

By  
     
  /s/ A NDREW  C ECERE    

Andrew Cecere   

President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below on February 22, 2018, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.       

Signature and Title     

/s/ A NDREW  C ECERE    
 
  Andrew Cecere,   
 
    Director, President and Chief Executive Officer  
  (principal executive officer)    

/s/ T ERRANCE  R. D OLAN    
 
  Terrance R. Dolan,   
 
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  
  (principal financial officer)    

/s/ C RAIG  E. G IFFORD    
 
  Craig E. Gifford,   
 
    Executive Vice President and Controller  
  (principal accounting officer)    

R ICHARD  K. D AVIS *   
 
  Richard K. Davis, Director   

D OUGLAS  M. B AKER , J R .*   
 
  Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Director   

W ARNER  L. B AXTER *   
 
    Warner L. Baxter, Director    

M ARC  N. C ASPER *   
 
    Mark N. Casper, Director    

A RTHUR  D. C OLLINS , J R .*   
 
    Arthur D. Collins, Jr., Director    

K IMBERLY  J. H ARRIS *   
 
    Kimberly J. Harris, Director    

R OLAND  A. H ERNANDEZ *   
 
    Roland A. Hernandez, Director     
         31   

Signature and Title     

D OREEN  W OO  H O *   
 
    Doreen Woo Ho, Director    

O LIVIA  F. K IRTLEY *   
 
    Olivia F. Kirtley, Director    

K AREN  S. L YNCH *   
 
    Karen S. Lynch, Director    

R ICHARD  P. M C K ENNEY *   
 
    Richard P. McKenney, Director    

D AVID  B. O  MALEY *   
 
  David B. O Maley, Director   

O  DELL  M. O WENS , M.D., M.P.H.*   
 
  O Dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., Director   

C RAIG  D. S CHNUCK *    
 
    Craig D. Schnuck, Director    

S COTT  W. W INE *    
 
    Scott W. Wine, Director    

*  
   Andrew Cecere, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this document on behalf of each of the above named directors of the registrant pursuant to powers of
attorney duly executed by such persons.          Dated: February 22, 2018   

By:  
     
  /s/ A NDREW  C ECERE    

Andrew Cecere   

Attorney-In-Fact   

President and Chief Executive Officer   

32   

<EX-10.39>
 2
 d492040dex1039.htm
 EX-10.39

EX-10.39 

Exhibit 10.39   
  NOTE: This Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement is applicable to performance restricted stock unit awards made to members of the Managing
Committee ( Participants ) of U.S. Bancorp (the  Company ) on and after January 1, 2018. These performance restricted stock unit awards have the terms and conditions set forth in (a) each Participant s grant detail
(the  Grant Detail ), which can be accessed on the Fidelity Website at  www.netbenefits.com  (or the website of any other stock plan administrator selected by the Company in the future), and (b) the form of Exhibit A hereto
(which will be completed to include all information called for therein) (the  Completed Exhibit A ) provided to such Participant as soon as administratively feasible following the date on which the award is made. The Grant Detail may
be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Grant Detail may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Detail and the Completed Exhibit A, each performance restricted stock unit award will
have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement below. As a condition of each performance restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Performance
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, the Grant Detail and the Completed Exhibit A.      U.S. BANCORP   
  PERFORMANCE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT   
  THIS AGREEMENT , together with the Grant Detail and the Completed Exhibit A which are incorporated herein by reference (collectively, the
 Agreement ), sets forth the terms and conditions of a performance restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the  Common Stock ). The grant of
this performance restricted stock unit award is made pursuant to the Company s 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders on April 21, 2015 (the  Plan ) and is subject to its terms. Capitalized terms that are
not defined in the Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan.    The Company and Participant agree as follows:  
 1.   Award      Subject to the terms
and conditions of the Plan and the Agreement, the Company grants to Participant a performance restricted stock unit award entitling Participant to the number of performance restricted stock units (the  Units ) equal to the  Target
Award Number  set forth in Participant s Grant Detail (such number of units, the  Target Award Number ). The Target Award Number shall be adjusted upward or downward as provided in the Completed Exhibit A. The number of
Units that Participant will receive under the Agreement, after giving effect to such adjustment, is referred to herein as the  Final Award Number.  Each Unit represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock, subject to the vesting
requirements and distribution provisions of the Agreement and the terms of the Plan. The shares of Common Stock distributable to Participant with respect to the Units granted hereunder are referred to as the  Shares.  Participant s
Grant Detail sets forth the date of grant of this award (the  Grant Date ). The Completed Exhibit A sets forth (a) the performance period over which the Final Award Number will be determined (the  Performance Period ),
and (b) the date on which the Final Award Number will be determined (the  Determination Date ).    2.   Vesting; Forfeiture    
 (a)  Time-Based Vesting Conditions . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, if the Participant remains continuously
employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company through the Vesting Date as set forth in the Participant s Grant Detail at the time of grant (the  Scheduled Vesting Date ), the number of Units equal to the Final Award Number
shall become vested on the Scheduled Vesting Date. and will be settled and Shares delivered in accordance with Section 3(a), provided that Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant. Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement, if Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company and its Affiliates prior to
the Scheduled Vesting Date, all Units that have not become vested previously shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited.  

(b)  Continued Vesting Upon Separation From Service Due to Retirement . Notwithstanding
Section 2(a), if Participant has a Separation From Service (as defined in Section 10) with the Company or any Affiliate by reason Retirement (as defined in Section 10), prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided such Separation
From Service is not a Qualifying Termination, the Units shall not be forfeited, but rather, the Participant s Target Award Number will be adjusted by  pro-rating  as follows. The Participant s Target
Award Number will be adjusted by dividing the number of days during the Performance Period prior to Participant s Separation From Service by the total number of days in the Performance Period. The resulting number will be the Participant s
  Pro-rated  Target Award Number . Following the end of the Performance Period, Participant s  Pro-rated  Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or
downward as provided in the Completed Exhibit A to determine Participant s Final Award Number. Subject to the terms of the Agreement, including Section 2(f) hereof, and provided that Participant has at all times since the Grant Date
complied with the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, the number of Units equal to the Final Award will be settled and Shares
delivered in accordance with Section 3(a).    (c)  Continued Vesting Following Death or Disability . If Participant ceases to be
an employee by reason of death, or if Participant has a Separation From Service by reason of Disability (as defined in Section 10) prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, then the Units shall not be forfeited. Rather, the Target Award Number will
be eligible to become vested following the end of the Performance Period, subject to adjustment upward or downward as provided in the Completed Exhibit A to determine Participant s Final Award Number. Subject to the terms of the Agreement,
including Section 2(f) hereof, and provided the Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an
Affiliate and the Participant, the number of Units equal to the Final Award will be settled and Shares delivered in accordance with Section 3(a).  
 (d) Continued  Vesting Following a Qualifying Termination . Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 2(a) and
2(b) above, but subject to the other terms and conditions of the Agreement, if Participant experiences a Qualifying Termination (as defined in Section 10) prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, then the Units shall not be forfeited, but rather
the Target Award Number will be eligible to become vested following the end of the Performance Period, subject to adjustment upward or downward as provided in the Completed Exhibit A to determine Participant s Final Award Number. Subject to the
terms of the Agreement, including Section 2(f) hereof, and provided the Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement
between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, the number of Units equal to the Final Award will be settled and Shares delivered in accordance with Section 3(b). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if in connection with a Change in Control
the Units are adjusted, or units in the acquiring or surviving entity are substituted for the Units, or the Plan is terminated, in each case as permitted under the Plan and in accordance with Section 409A, then the terms of such adjustment,
substitution or plan termination will govern the treatment of the Units.    (e)  Forfeiture on Termination of Employment for Cause and on
Breach of Confidentiality Agreement . If Participant violates the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, all Units that have not
been settled (and Shares delivered) previously shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited. If Participant s employment with the Company is terminated for Cause, all Units that have not been settled (and Shares delivered) previously shall be
immediately and irrevocably forfeited. Upon forfeiture, Participant shall have no rights relating to the forfeited Units (including, without limitation, any rights to receive a distribution of Shares with respect to the Units and the right to
receive Dividend Equivalents).  
      -2-  

(f)  S  pecial Risk-Related Cancellation Provisions.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of the Agreement, if at any time subsequent to the Grant Date the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that Participant has (i) failed to comply with Company policies and procedures, including the Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct, (ii) violated any law or regulation, (iii) engaged in negligent or willful misconduct, or (iv) engaged in activity resulting in a significant or material control deficiency under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such
failure, violation, misconduct or activity (A) demonstrates an Inadequate Sensitivity (as defined below) to the inherent risks of Participant s business line or functional area, and (B) results in, or is reasonably likely to result
in, a material adverse impact (whether financial or reputational) on the Company or Participant s business line or functional area, all or part of the Units granted under the Agreement that have not been settled (and Shares delivered) at the
time of such determination may be cancelled, and, if so cancelled, Participant will have no rights with respect to the Units.  Inadequate Sensitivity  means Participant has engaged in imprudent activities that subject the Company to risk
outcomes in future periods, including risks that may not be apparent at the time the activities are undertaken.    3.   Distribution of Shares with
Respect to Units      Subject to the terms of the Agreement, following the vesting of Units and following the payment of any applicable withholding
taxes pursuant to Section 7 hereof, the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to Participant (including through book entry) Shares registered in the name of Participant or in the name of Participant s legal representatives,
beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, as follows:    (a)  General Rule . As soon as administratively feasible following the
Scheduled Vesting Date (but in no event later than December 31 st  of the year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date occurs), all Shares issuable pursuant to Units that become vested in accordance
with Sections 2(a) through 2(c) hereof shall be distributed to Participant, or in the event of Participant s death, to the representatives of Participant or to any Person to whom the Units have been transferred by will or the applicable laws of
descent and distribution.    (b)  Qualifying Termination Distributions . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3(b), as
soon as administratively feasible following the Scheduled Vesting Date (but in no event later than December 31 st  of the year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date occurs), all Shares issuable
pursuant to Units that become vested in accordance with Sections 2(d) hereof shall be distributed to Participant, or in the event of Participant s death, to the representatives of Participant or to any Person to whom the Units have been
transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if in connection with a Change in Control the Units are adjusted, or units in the acquiring or surviving entity are substituted for the Units, or
the Plan is terminated, in each case as permitted under the Plan and in accordance with Section 409A, then the terms of such adjustment, substitution or plan termination will govern the treatment of the Units, including the time and manner of
settlement of the Units.    In the event that the number of Shares distributable pursuant to this Section 3 is a number that is not a whole number,
then the number of Shares distributed shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.    4.   Rights as Shareholder; Dividend Equivalents   
   Prior to the distribution of Shares with respect to Units pursuant to Section 3 above, Participant shall not have ownership or rights of ownership of
any Shares underlying the Units;  provided ,  however , that Participant shall be entitled to accrue cash Dividend Equivalents on outstanding Units (i.e. Units that have not been forfeited or settled), whether vested or unvested, if cash
dividends on the Common Stock are declared by the Board on or after the Grant Date. Prior to the Determination Date, Participant will accrue cash Dividend Equivalents on Units equal to the Target Award Number. Specifically, when cash dividends are
paid with respect to a share of outstanding Common Stock, an amount of cash per Unit equal to the cash dividend paid with respect to a share of outstanding Common Stock will be accrued with respect to each Unit in Participant s Target Award
Number. On the Determination Date, the dollar amount of Participant s cumulative accrued Dividend Equivalents as of the Determination Date will be multiplied by Participant s Target Award Number Percentage to determine the amount of cash
Dividend Equivalents that will be paid to Participant. Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash on the date on which the underlying Units giving rise to the Dividend Equivalents are settled and paid out. The Dividend Equivalents shall be treated as
earnings on, and as a separate amount from, the Units for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  
      -3-  

5.   Restriction on Transfer     
 Except for transfers by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Units cannot be sold, assigned, transferred, gifted, pledged, or in any
manner encumbered, alienated, attached or disposed of, and any purported sale, assignment, transfer, gift, pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. No such attempt to transfer the Units,
whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise (except by will or laws of descent and distribution), shall vest the purported transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Units or the Shares issuable with
respect to the Units.    6.   Securities Law Compliance    
 The delivery of all or any of the Shares in accordance with this Award shall be effective only at such time that the issuance of such Shares will not violate
any state or federal securities or other laws. The Company is under no obligation to effect any registration of the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933 or to effect any state registration or qualification of the Shares. The Company may, in its
sole discretion, delay the delivery of the Shares or place restrictive legends on such Shares in order to ensure that the issuance of any Shares will be in compliance with federal or state securities laws and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange
or any other exchange upon which the Company s Common Stock is traded.    7.   Income Tax Withholding    
 In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign income and payroll tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such
action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant. Without limiting the foregoing, the Company
may, but is not obligated to, permit or require the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations through net Share settlement at the time of delivery of Shares (i.e. the Company withholds a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered with a Fair
Market Value, as such term is defined in the Plan, equal to the amount of such taxes, but only to the extent necessary to satisfy certain statutory withholding requirements to avoid adverse accounting treatment under ASC 718) or through an open
market sale of Shares otherwise to be delivered, in each case pursuant to such rules and procedures as may be established by the Company.    8.
  Miscellaneous      (a) The Agreement is issued pursuant to the Plan and is subject to its terms. The Plan is available for
inspection during business hours at the principal office of the Company. In addition, the Plan may be viewed on the Fidelity Website at  www.netbenefits.com  (or the website of any other stock plan administrator selected by the Company in the
future).    (b) The Agreement shall not confer on Participant any right with respect to continuance of employment with the Company or any
Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate such employment at any time.    (c)
Participant acknowledges that the grant, vesting or any payment with respect to this Award, and the sale or other taxable disposition of the Shares issued with respect to the Units hereunder may have tax consequences pursuant to the Code or under
local, state or international tax laws. It is intended that the Award shall comply with Section 409A of the Code, and the provisions of the Agreement and the Plan shall be construed and administered accordingly. Any amendment or modification of
the Award (to the extent permitted under the terms of the Plan), will be undertaken in a manner intended to comply with Section 409A, to the extent applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is no guaranty or assurance as to the tax
treatment of the Award. Participant acknowledges that Participant is relying solely and exclusively on Participant s own professional tax and investment advisors with respect to any and all such matters (and is not relying, in any manner, on
the Company or any of its employees or representatives). Participant understands and agrees that any and all tax consequences resulting from the Award and its grant, vesting, amendment, or any payment with respect thereto, and the sale or other
taxable disposition of the Shares acquired pursuant to the Award, is solely and exclusively the responsibility of Participant without any expectation or understanding that the Company or any of its employees or representatives will pay or reimburse
Participant for such taxes or other items.  
      -4-  

9.   Venue    
 Any claim or action brought with respect to this Award shall be brought in a federal or state court located in Minneapolis, Minnesota.  
 10.   Definitions      For purposes of the Agreement,
the following terms shall have the definitions as set forth below:    (a)   Change in Control   shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in the Plan, but only if the event or circumstances constituting such change in control also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of
the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.    (b)   Disability   means leaving active employment and
qualifying for and receiving disability benefits under the Company s long-term disability programs as in effect from time to time.  
 (c)   Qualifying Termination   means:  
 (A) Participant s Separation From Service with the Company and its Affiliates as a result of the Company s termination of
Participant s employment for any reason other than Cause within 12 months following a Change in Control, provided that such a termination will not be a Qualifying Termination if: i) the Company has notified the Participant in writing more than
30 days prior to the Announcement Date that Participant s employment is not expected to continue for more than 12 months following the date of such notification, and Participant s employment is in fact terminated within such 12 month
period; or ii) Participant has announced in writing, prior to the date the Company provides a Notice of Termination to Participant, that Participant intends to terminate his or her employment; or  
 (B) Participant s Separation From Service with the Company and its Affiliates (other than as a result of Participant s termination
of employment by the Company for Cause) within 12 months following a Change in Control, if, at the time of such Separation From Service, Participant is age 55 or older and has had 10 or more years of employment with the Company or its Affiliates
following such Participant s most recent date of hire by the Company or its Affiliates.    For purposes of this definition, the term Company shall be
deemed to include any Person that has assumed this Award (or provided a substitute award to Participant) in connection with a Change in Control.  
 (d)   Retirement   means a Separation From Service with the Company and its affiliates (other than for Cause) by a Participant
who is age 55 or older and has had 10 or more years of employment with the Company or its Affiliates following such Participant s most recent date of hire by the Company or its Affiliates.  
 (e)   Separation From Service   means a Participant s separation from service with the Company and its affiliates, as
determined under Treasury Regulation section  1.409A-1(h)(1),  provided, that the term  affiliate  shall mean a business entity which is affiliated in ownership with the Company and that is treated as
a single employer under the rules of section 414(b) and (c) of the Code (applying the eighty percent common ownership standard).  
      -5-  

EXHIBIT A   
  TO      PERFORMANCE
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT     This Exhibit A to the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement sets forth the manner in which the
Final Award Number will be determined for each Participant.     Definitions   
 Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan, the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement
and Participant s Grant Detail. The following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A and in the ROE Performance Matrix shall have the meanings set forth below:  
   Company ROE Maximum   means ____%.  
   Company ROE Minimum   means ____%.  
   Company ROE Result   means the ROE achieved by the Company during the Performance Period.  
   Company ROE Target   means ____%.  
   Determination Date   means the date on which the Final Award Number is determined, which date shall not be later than 45 days after the last
day of the Performance Period.      Final Award Number   means the  Final Award Number  determined in accordance with this
Exhibit A.      Peer Group Companies   means the following companies: ____________________________________.  
   Peer Group ROE Ranking Maximum   means the ____ percentile.  
   Peer Group ROE Ranking Minimum   means the ____ percentile.  
   Peer Group ROE Ranking Target   means the ____ percentile.  
   Peer Group ROE   means the ROE achieved by the Peer Group Companies during the Performance Period.  
   Peer Group ROE Ranking   means the percentile rank of the Company ROE Result relative to Peer Group ROE.  
   Performance Period   means the period commencing on January 1, 20__ and ending December 31, 20__.  
   ROE   means (a) net income applicable to the common shareholders of a company during the Performance Period, divided by (b) that
company s average common shareholders  equity during the Performance Period.      ROE Performance Matrix   means the ROE
Performance Matrix set forth in this Exhibit A.      Target Award Number   means the  Target Award Number  set forth in a
Participant s Grant Detail.      Target Award Number Percentage   means the  Target Award Number Percentage  determined in
accordance with the ROE Performance Matrix and the related rules set forth in this Exhibit A.  
      -6-  

Determination of Final Award Number   
 Each Participant has been granted a number of Units equal to the Target Award Number. The Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on
(a) whether the Company ROE Result is greater or less than the Company ROE Target, and (b) the Peer Group ROE Ranking. The Final Award Number for each Participant will be determined by multiplying (i) the Target Award Number
Percentage by (ii) the Target Award Number. The Target Award Number Percentage will be determined in accordance with the following ROE Performance Matrix and the related rules below:  
  ROE PERFORMANCE MATRIX       

Company ROE  
  Result  
  (Vertical Axis)   

Target Award Number Percentage  

Company ROE Maximum (__%) or more 

75 
 %  

125 
 %  

150 
 %   

Company ROE Target (___%) 

50 
 %  

100 
 %  

125 
 %   

Company ROE Minimum (___%) or less (but greater than zero) 

25 
 %  

50 
 %  

75 
 %   

Company ROE is 0% or less 

0 
 %  

0 
 %  

0 
 %   

Peer Group ROE Ranking Minimum or below 

Peer Group ROE Ranking Target 

Peer Group ROE Ranking Maximum or above 

Peer Group ROE Ranking     (Horizontal Axis)   
             
   In determining the Target Award Number Percentage in accordance with the ROE Performance Matrix, the following rules will
apply:      

If the Company ROE Result is greater than the Company ROE Minimum and less than the Company ROE Target, the Target Award Number Percentage on the vertical axis will be determined by interpolation of the Company ROE
Result between the Company ROE Minimum and the Company ROE Target.        

If the Company ROE Result is greater than the Company ROE Target and less than the Company ROE Maximum, the Target Award Number Percentage on the vertical axis will be determined by interpolation of the Company ROE
Result between the Company ROE Target and the Company ROE Maximum.        

If the Peer Group ROE Ranking is greater than the Peer Group ROE Ranking Minimum and less than the Peer Group ROE Ranking Target, the Target Award Number Percentage on the horizontal axis will be determined by
interpolation of the Peer Group ROE Ranking between the Peer Group ROE Minimum and the Peer Group ROE Target.        

If the Peer Group ROE Ranking is greater than the Peer ROE Group Ranking Target and less than the Peer Group ROE Ranking Maximum, the Target Award Number Percentage on the horizontal axis will be determined by
interpolation of the Peer Group ROE Ranking between the Peer Group ROE Target and the Peer Group ROE Maximum.    
      -7-  

After the Target Award Number Percentage on each of the vertical axis and horizontal axis has been determined, the actual Target Award Number Percentage will be determined by interpolation of the data points
( i.e. , the percentages) set forth in the ROE Performance Matrix.        

In no event shall the Target Award Number Percentage be greater than 150.0%.      The Final Award Number for each
Participant shall be determined by the Committee on the Determination Date. The Grant Detail of each Participant shall be amended to reflect the Final Award Number as soon as administratively feasible after the Final Award Number for such
Participant is determined.     Committee Determinations   
 The Committee shall make all determinations necessary to arrive at the Final Award Number for each Participant. The Committee shall determine the Company ROE
Result by reference to the Company s audited financial statements as of and for the year ending on the last day of the Performance Period. The Committee shall determine the Peer Group ROE Ranking by reference to publicly available financial
information regarding the Peer Companies. Any determination by the Committee pursuant to this Exhibit A will be binding upon each Participant and the Company.  
  No Fractional Units     In the event the Final Award Number
is a number of Units that is not a whole number, then the Final Award Number shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.  
      -8-  

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 3
 d492040dex1040.htm
 EX-10.40

EX-10.40 

Exhibit 10.40   
  NOTE: This Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement is applicable to restricted stock unit awards made to members of the Managing Committee
( Participants ) of U.S. Bancorp (the  Company ) on and after January 1, 2018. These restricted stock unit awards have the terms and conditions set forth in each Participant s grant detail (the  Grant
Detail ), which can be accessed on the Fidelity Website at  www.netbenefits.com  (or the website of any other stock plan administrator selected by the Company in the future).. The Grant Detail may be viewed at any time on this Website, and
the Grant Detail may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Detail, each restricted stock unit award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award
Agreement below. As a condition of each restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement and the Grant Detail.   
  U.S. BANCORP      RESTRICTED
STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT      THIS AGREEMENT , together with the Grant Detail which is incorporated herein by reference (collectively, the
 Agreement ), sets forth the terms and conditions of a restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the  Common Stock ). The grant of this
restricted stock unit award is made pursuant to the Company s 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders on April 21, 2015 (the  Plan ) and is subject to its terms. Capitalized terms that are not defined in the
Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan.    The Company and Participant agree as follows:  
 1.   Award      Subject to the terms
and conditions of the Plan and the Agreement, the Company grants to Participant an RSU Award entitling the Participant to the number of restricted stock units (the  Units ) set forth in Participant s Grant Detail. Each Unit represents
the right to receive one share of Common Stock, subject to the vesting requirements and distribution provisions of the Agreement and the terms of the Plan. The shares of Common Stock distributable to Participant with respect to the Units granted
hereunder are referred to as the  Shares.  Participant s Grant Detail sets forth the date of grant of this award (the  Grant Date ).  
 2.   Vesting; Forfeiture      (a)
 Time-Based Vesting Conditions . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the Units shall vest in installments on the date or dates set forth in the Participant s Grant Detail at the time of grant (each such date, a
 Scheduled Vesting Date ) and will be settled and Shares delivered in accordance with Section 3(a), if: (i) Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the applicable Scheduled
Vesting Date; and (ii) Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the
Participant. Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement, if Participant ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate prior to an applicable Scheduled Vesting Date, all Units that have not become vested previously in accordance with
the Grant Detail shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited.    (b)  Continued Vesting Upon Separation From Service Due to Retirement
or Disability . Notwithstanding Section 2(a), if Participant has a Separation From Service (as defined in Section 10) with the Company or any Affiliate by reason of Disability (as defined in Section 10) or Retirement (as defined in
Section 10), the Units shall not be forfeited. Rather the Units shall continue to vest on the Scheduled Vesting Dates in accordance with Participant s Grant Detail, subject to the terms of the Agreement, including Section 2(f) hereof,
as though such Separation From Service had never occurred, and will be settled and Shares delivered in accordance with Section 3(c) provided that Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms of any confidentiality
and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant.  

(c)  Acceleration of Vesting upon Death . If Participant ceases to be an employee by reason
of death, or if Participant dies after a Separation From Service with the Company or an Affiliate due to Disability or Retirement but prior to any Scheduled Vesting Date, and Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms
of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, then the Units will become vested as of the date of death and will be settled and Shares delivered
in accordance with Section 3(d).    (d)  Acceleration of Vesting Upon Qualifying Termination . Notwithstanding the vesting
provisions contained in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, but subject to the other terms and conditions of the Agreement, if Participant has been continuously employed by the Company or any Affiliate until the date such Participant experiences a
Qualifying Termination (as defined in Section 10) that occurs prior to a Scheduled Vesting Date, and provided that Participant has at all times since the Grant Date complied with the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, then, immediately upon such Qualifying Termination, the Units shall become vested and will be settled and Shares delivered in
accordance with Section 3(b).    (e)  Forfeiture on Termination of Employment for Cause and on Breach of Confidentiality
Agreement . If Participant violates the terms of any confidentiality and  non-solicitation  agreement between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, all Units that have not been settled (and Shares
delivered) previously shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited. If Participant s employment with the Company is terminated for Cause, all Units that have not been settled (and Shares delivered) previously shall be immediately and
irrevocably forfeited. Upon forfeiture, Participant shall have no rights relating to the forfeited Units (including, without limitation, any rights to receive a distribution of Shares with respect to the Units and the right to receive Dividend
Equivalents).    (f)  S  pecial Risk-Related Cancellation Provisions.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Agreement, if at
any time subsequent to the Grant Date the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that Participant has (i) failed to comply with Company policies and procedures, including the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, (ii) violated any
law or regulation, (iii) engaged in negligent or willful misconduct, or (iv) engaged in activity resulting in a significant or material control deficiency under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such failure, violation, misconduct or
activity (A) demonstrates an Inadequate Sensitivity (as defined below) to the inherent risks of Participant s business line or functional area, and (B) results in, or is reasonably likely to result in, a material adverse impact
(whether financial or reputational) on the Company or Participant s business line or functional area, all or part of the Units granted under the Agreement that have not been settled (and Shares delivered) at the time of such determination may
be cancelled, and, if so cancelled, Participant will have no rights with respect to the Units.  Inadequate Sensitivity  means Participant has engaged in imprudent activities that subject the Company to risk outcomes in future periods,
including risks that may not be apparent at the time the activities are undertaken.    3.   Distribution of Shares with Respect to
Units      Subject to the terms of the Agreement including the restrictions in this Section 3, following the vesting of Units and following the
payment of any applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 7 hereof, the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to Participant (including through book entry) Shares registered in the name of Participant or in the name of
Participant s legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, as follows:    (a)  Scheduled Vesting Date
Distributions . As soon as administratively feasible following each Scheduled Vesting Date (but in no event later than December 31 st  of the year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date occurs),
all Shares issuable pursuant to Units that become vested pursuant to Sections 2(a) (and with respect to which Shares have not been distributed previously) shall be distributed to Participant, or in the event of Participant s death, to the
representatives of Participant or to any Person to whom the Units have been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.  
      -2-  

(b)  Qualifying Termination Distributions . As soon as administratively feasible following a
Separation From Service in connection with a Qualifying Termination (and in any case no later than 60 days following such Separation From Service except as otherwise provided in this Section 3(b)), all Shares issuable pursuant to Units that
become vested as a result of such Qualifying Termination (and with respect to which Shares have not been distributed previously) shall be distributed to Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Shares issuable to a Specified Employee (as
defined in Section 10) as a result of a Separation From Service in connection with a Qualifying Termination will not be delivered to such Specified Employee until the date that is six months and one day after the date of the Separation From
Service.    (c)  Distributions Following Retirement or Disability . If a Participant has a Separation From Service with the Company or
its Affiliates due to Retirement or Disability (so long as such Separation From Service is not in connection with a Qualifying Termination), the distribution of Shares with respect to Units will not be accelerated, and Shares will be distributed as
soon as administratively feasible following the applicable Scheduled Vesting Dates (but in no event later than December 31 st  of the year in which such Scheduled Vesting Date occurs).  
 (d)  Distributions Following Death . As soon as administratively feasible following the death of a Participant (but in no event later
than 90 days following such death) all Shares issuable pursuant to Units that become vested pursuant to Section 2(c) (and with respect to which Shares have not been distributed previously) shall be distributed to Participant.  
 In the event that the number of Shares distributable pursuant to this Section 3 is a number that is not a whole number, then the number of Shares
distributed shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.    4.   Rights as Shareholder; Dividend Equivalents     
 Prior to the distribution of Shares with respect to Units pursuant to Section 3 above, Participant shall not have ownership or rights of ownership of any
Shares underlying the Units;  provided ,  however , that Participant shall be entitled to receive cash Dividend Equivalents on outstanding Units (i.e. Units that have not been forfeited or settled), whether vested or unvested, if cash
dividends on the Common Stock are declared by the Board on or after the Grant Date. Such Dividend Equivalents will be in an amount of cash per Unit equal to the cash dividend paid with respect to a share of outstanding Common Stock. The Dividend
Equivalents shall be treated as earnings on, and as a separate amount from, the Units for purposes of Section 409A of the Code and will be paid out on the same payment dates as dividends are paid to holders of the Common Stock. Dividend
Equivalents paid with respect to dividends declared before the delivery of the Shares underlying the Units will be treated as compensation income for tax purposes and will be subject to income and payroll tax withholding by the Company.  
 5.   Restriction on Transfer       Except for transfers
by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Units cannot be sold, assigned, transferred, gifted, pledged, or in any manner encumbered, alienated, attached or disposed of, and any purported sale, assignment, transfer, gift,
pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. No such attempt to transfer the Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise (except by will or laws of descent and
distribution), shall vest the purported transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Units or the Shares issuable with respect to the Units.  
 6.   Securities Law Compliance      The delivery of all
or any of the Shares in accordance with this Award shall be effective only at such time that the issuance of such Shares will not violate any state or federal securities or other laws. The Company is under no obligation to effect any registration of
the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933 or to effect any state registration or qualification of the Shares. The Company may, in its sole discretion, delay the delivery of the Shares or place restrictive legends on such Shares in order to ensure
that the issuance of any Shares will be in compliance with federal or state securities laws and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Company s Common Stock is traded.  
      -3-  

7.   Income Tax Withholding    
 In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign income and payroll tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such
action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant. Without limiting the foregoing, the Company
may, but is not obligated to, permit or require the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations through net Share settlement at the time of delivery of Shares (i.e. the Company withholds a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered with a Fair
Market Value, as such term is defined in the Plan, equal to the amount of such taxes, but only to the extent necessary to satisfy certain statutory withholding requirements to avoid adverse accounting treatment under ASC 718) or through an open
market sale of Shares otherwise to be delivered, in each case pursuant to such rules and procedures as may be established by the Company.    8.
  Miscellaneous      (a) The Agreement is issued pursuant to the Plan and is subject to its terms. The Plan is available for
inspection during business hours at the principal office of the Company. In addition, the Plan may be viewed on the Fidelity Website at   www.netbenefits.com   (or the website of any other stock plan administrator selected by the Company
in the future).    (b) The Agreement shall not confer on Participant any right with respect to continuance of employment with the Company or
any Affiliate, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate such employment at any time.  
 (c) Participant acknowledges that the grant, vesting or any payment with respect to this Award, and the sale or other taxable disposition of
the Shares issued with respect to the Units hereunder may have tax consequences pursuant to the Code or under local, state or international tax laws. It is intended that the Award shall comply with Section 409A of the Code, and the provisions
of the Agreement and the Plan shall be construed and administered accordingly. Any amendment or modification of the Award (to the extent permitted under the terms of the Plan), will be undertaken in a manner intended to comply with
Section 409A, to the extent applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is no guaranty or assurance as to the tax treatment of the Award. Participant acknowledges that Participant is relying solely and exclusively on Participant s own
professional tax and investment advisors with respect to any and all such matters (and is not relying, in any manner, on the Company or any of its employees or representatives). Participant understands and agrees that any and all tax consequences
resulting from the Award and its grant, vesting, amendment, or any payment with respect thereto, and the sale or other taxable disposition of the Shares acquired pursuant to the Award, is solely and exclusively the responsibility of Participant
without any expectation or understanding that the Company or any of its employees or representatives will pay or reimburse Participant for such taxes or other items.  
 9.   Venue      Any claim or action brought with
respect to this Award shall be brought in a federal or state court located in Minneapolis, Minnesota.    10.   Definitions    
 For purposes of the Agreement, the following terms shall have the definitions as set forth below:  
 (a)   Change in Control   shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Plan, but only if the event or circumstances constituting
such change in control also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  
 (b)   Disability   means leaving active employment and qualifying for and receiving disability benefits under the
Company s long-term disability programs as in effect from time to time.  
      -4-  

(c)   Qualifying Termination   means:  
 (A) Participant s Separation From Service with the Company and its Affiliates as a result of the Company s termination of
Participant s employment for any reason other than Cause within 12 months following a Change in Control, provided that such a termination will not be a Qualifying Termination if: i) the Company has notified the Participant in writing more than
30 days prior to the Announcement Date that Participant s employment is not expected to continue for more than 12 months following the date of such notification, and Participant s employment is in fact terminated within such 12 month
period; or ii) Participant has announced in writing, prior to the date the Company provides a Notice of Termination to Participant, that Participant intends to terminate his or her employment;  
 (B) Participant s Separation From Service with the Company and its Affiliates as a result of Disability within 12 months following a
Change in Control; or    (C) Participant s Separation From Service with the Company and its Affiliates (other than as a result of
Participant s termination of employment by the Company for Cause) within 12 months following a Change in Control, if, at the time of such Separation From Service, Participant is age 55 or older and has had 10 or more years of employment with
the Company or its Affiliates following such Participant s most recent date of hire by the Company or its Affiliates.    For purposes of this
definition, the term Company shall be deemed to include any Person that has assumed this Award (or provided a substitute award to Participant) in connection with a Change in Control.  
 (d)   Retirement   means a Separation From Service with the Company and its affiliates (other than for Cause) by a Participant
who is age 55 or older and has had 10 or more years of employment with the Company or its Affiliates following such Participant s most recent date of hire by the Company or its Affiliates.  
 (e)   Separation From Service   means a Participant s separation from service with the Company and its affiliates, as
determined under Treasury Regulation section  1.409A-1(h)(1),  provided, that the term  affiliate  shall mean a business entity which is affiliated in ownership with the Company and that is treated as
a single employer under the rules of section 414(b) and (c) of the Code (applying the eighty percent common ownership standard).    (f)
  Specified Employee   shall mean any Participant who is a specified employee for purposes of section  1.409A-1(i)  of the U.S. Treasury Regulations, determined in accordance with the rules set
forth in the separate document entitled  U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination.   
      -5-  

</EX-10.40>

<EX-12>
 4
 d492040dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12   
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges       

* 
 Excludes interest expense related to unrecognized tax positions       Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends       

* 
 Excludes interest expense related to unrecognized tax positions    

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 5
 d492040dex13.htm
 EX-13

EX-13 

Table of Contents  

   EXHIBIT 13      The following pages discuss in detail the financial results we achieved in 2017   results that reflect    how we re       building your trust   .   

Financial Table of Contents    

22   
  Management s Discussion and Analysis         

24  
 Statement of Income Analysis        

29  
 Balance Sheet Analysis        

38  
 Corporate Risk Profile        

39  
 Credit Risk Management        

51  
 Residual Value Risk Management        

52  
 Operational Risk Management        

52  
 Compliance Risk Management        

52  
 Interest Rate Risk Management        

54  
 Market Risk Management        

55  
 Liquidity Risk Management        

60  
 Fourth Quarter Summary        

61  
 Line of Business Financial Review        

66  
 Non-GAAP Financial Measures        

68  
 Critical Accounting Policies        

71  
 Controls and Procedures        

72   
  Reports of Management and Independent Accountants         

75   
  Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes         

140   
  Five-Year Consolidated Financial Statements         

142   
  Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data         

The following information appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:   
 This report contains forward-looking statements about U.S. Bancorp. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and
expectations, are forward-looking statements and are based on the information available to, and assumptions and estimates made by, management as of the date hereof. These forward-looking statements cover, among other things, anticipated future
revenue and expenses and the future plans and prospects of U.S. Bancorp. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. A reversal or
slowing of the current economic recovery or another severe contraction could adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s revenues and the values of its assets and liabilities. Global financial markets could experience a recurrence of significant
turbulence, which could reduce the availability of funding to certain financial institutions and lead to a tightening of credit, a reduction of business activity, and increased market volatility. Stress in the commercial real estate markets, as well
as a downturn in the residential real estate markets could cause credit losses and deterioration in asset values. In addition, changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies or practices could affect U.S. Bancorp in substantial and
unpredictable ways. U.S. Bancorp s results could also be adversely affected by deterioration in general business and economic conditions; changes in interest rates; deterioration in the credit quality of its loan portfolios or in the value of
the collateral securing those loans; deterioration in the value of securities held in its investment securities portfolio; legal and regulatory developments; litigation; increased competition from both banks and non-banks; changes in customer
behavior and preferences; breaches in data security; effects of mergers and acquisitions and related integration; effects of critical accounting policies and judgments; and management s ability to effectively manage credit risk, market risk,
operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and reputational risk.    Additional factors could cause actual results to differ
from expectations, including the risks discussed in the  Corporate Risk Profile  section on pages 38 60 and the  Risk Factors  section on pages 146 156 of this report. However, factors other than these also could
adversely affect U.S. Bancorp s results, and the reader should not consider these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Forward- looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and U.S. Bancorp undertakes no
obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.  

21                 

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   
  Overview   
    
  U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) delivered record financial performance in 2017. In a year
where the economy expanded at a moderate rate and the labor market continued to strengthen, the Company had record net revenue, net income and diluted earnings per share, while investing in technology and innovation to drive growth and improve
efficiencies in the future.    The Company earned $6.2 billion in 2017, an increase of 5.6 percent over 2016, principally due to total net
revenue growth. Net interest income increased as a result of the impact of rising interest rates and loan growth, while noninterest income increased due to higher payment services revenue, trust and investment management fees and treasury management
fees. The Company s return on average assets and return on average common equity were 1.39 percent and 13.8 percent, respectively.  
 The Company remains deeply committed to value creation for shareholders, and during the third quarter of 2017, increased its dividend rate per common
share by 7.1 percent. Overall, the Company returned 77 percent of its earnings to common shareholders through dividends and common share repurchases. This result was accomplished by generating steady growth in commercial and consumer
lending and total deposits, by building momentum in its core business, particularly within Wealth Management and Investment Services and Payment Services, and by maintaining a very strong capital base.  
 The Company s common equity tier 1 to risk-weighted assets ratio using the Basel III standardized approach and Basel III advanced approaches, as
if fully implemented, were 9.1 percent and 11.6 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2017   each above the Company s targeted ratio of 8.5 percent and well above the minimum ratio of 7.0 percent required when
fully implemented. In addition, refer to Table 23 for a summary of the statutory capital ratios in effect for the Company at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Further, credit rating organizations rate the Company s debt among the highest of any
bank in the world. This comparative financial strength provides the Company with favorable funding costs, strong liquidity and the ability to attract new customers.  
 In 2017, average loans and deposits increased $8.7 billion (3.3 percent) and $20.7 billion (6.6 percent), respectively, over

2016, reflecting growth from new and existing customers. Loan growth included increases in commercial loans, residential mortgages, credit card loans and other retail loans. These increases were
partially offset by a decline in commercial real estate loans, due to disciplined underwriting and customers paying down balances, and loans covered by loss sharing agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC )
( covered  loans), which is a  run-off  portfolio. Deposit growth included increases in noninterest-bearing, total savings and time deposits.  
 The Company s provision for credit losses increased $66 million (5.0 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Net charge-offs
increased $61 million (4.8 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to higher credit card and other retail loan net charge-offs, partially offset by lower net charge-offs related to residential mortgages and commercial loan
recoveries. The provision for credit losses was $60 million higher than net charge-offs in 2017, compared with $55 million higher than net charge-offs in 2016. The increase in the allowance for credit losses during 2017 reflected loan
portfolio growth, along with the maturing of vintages within the credit card portfolio and exposures related to 2017 weather events, partially offset by improvements in the energy and residential mortgage portfolios.  
 The Company s strong revenue base and financial discipline position it well for growth in 2018. The Company generated record revenue in 2017 and
is operating from a position of strength as it enters 2018. The Company experienced total loan growth, deposit growth, net interest income growth, and noninterest income growth in 2017. In addition, its capital position remained strong. The economic
environment is favorable and tax reform legislation enacted in late 2017 has provided the Company an opportunity to accelerate investment in its businesses, employees and communities, while at the same time enhancing shareholder value. With the
ongoing benefit provided by a lower corporate tax rate, the Company plans to increase its investments in technology and innovation, with a focus on enhancing the customer experience and improving operational efficiency that drives long-term growth
and creates value for shareholders.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 1   

Selected Financial Data  

(a)  
  Utilizes a tax rate of 35 percent, for the periods presented, for those assets and liabilities whose income or expense is not included for federal income tax purposes.     

(b)  
  See  Non-GAAP  Financial Measures beginning on page 66.     

(c)  
  Calculated as U.S. Bancorp common shareholders  equity divided by common shares outstanding at end of the period.     

(d)  
  Excludes unrealized gains and losses on   available-for-sale   investment securities and any premiums or discounts recorded related to the
transfer of investment securities at fair value from   available-for-sale   to
  held-to-maturity.       

Table of Contents  

Earnings Summary  The Company reported net income attributable to U.S. Bancorp of $6.2 billion in 2017,
or $3.51 per diluted common share, compared with $5.9 billion, or $3.24 per diluted common share, in 2016. Return on average assets and return on average common equity were 1.39 percent and 13.8 percent, respectively, in 2017,
compared with 1.36 percent and 13.4 percent, respectively, in 2016. The results for 2017 included a benefit of $910 million related to the estimated impact of the Tax Cuts and Job Act ( tax reform ) enacted by Congress in
late 2017 on the Company s tax related assets and liabilities, partially offset by a $608 million increase in reserves for regulatory and legal matters, as well as $152 million, net of tax, of expenses related to a charitable
contribution to the U.S. Bank Foundation and a special bonus awarded to certain eligible employees. Combined, these notable items increased 2017 diluted earnings per common share by $0.09.  
 Total net revenue for 2017 was $749 million (3.5 percent) higher than 2016, reflecting a 6.2 percent increase in net interest income
(6.1 percent on a taxable-equivalent basis), and a 0.4 percent increase in noninterest income. The increase in net interest income from the prior year was mainly a result of the impact of rising interest rates and loan growth. The increase
in noninterest income was primarily driven by higher payment services revenue, trust and investment management fees, and treasury management fees, partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue and lower equity investment income.  
 Noninterest expense in 2017 was $1.3 billion (10.9 percent) higher than 2016, reflecting business growth, incremental costs related to
compliance programs, investments in the business and the 2017 charitable contribution, special bonus and increase in reserves for regulatory and legal matters. Compensation expense increased primarily due to the impact of hiring to support business
growth and compliance programs, merit increases, higher variable compensation and the 2017 special bonus awarded to eligible employees. Marketing expense increased due to higher charitable contributions, while other expense was higher due to an
increase in reserves related to regulatory and legal matters, as well as the impact of an FDIC insurance surcharge which began in late 2016.

Statement of Income Analysis   
  Net Interest Income  Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was $12.4 billion in 2017, compared with $11.7 billion in 2016 and
$11.2 billion in 2015. The $715 million (6.1 percent) increase in net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, in 2017 compared with 2016, was principally driven by the impact of rising interest rates and loan growth. Average
earning assets were $16.5 billion (4.2 percent) higher in 2017, compared with 2016, driven by increases in loans, other earning assets and investment securities. The net interest margin, on a taxable-equivalent basis, in 2017 was
3.06 percent, compared with 3.01 percent in 2016 and 3.05 percent in 2015. The increase in the net interest margin in 2017, compared with 2016, was principally due to higher interest rates and changes in the loan portfolio mix,
partially offset by rising funding costs and higher cash balances. Refer to the  Interest Rate Risk Management  section for further information on the sensitivity of the Company s net interest income to changes in interest rates.  
 Average total loans were $276.5 billion in 2017, compared with $267.8 billion in 2016. The $8.7 billion (3.3 percent) increase was
driven by growth in commercial loans, residential mortgages, credit card loans and other retail loans, partially offset by decreases in commercial real estate and covered loans. Average commercial loans increased $3.9 billion (4.2 percent)
driven by higher demand for loans from new and existing customers. The $3.1 billion (5.6 percent) increase in residential mortgages reflected origination activity. Average credit card balances increased $416 million (2.0 percent) due
to customer growth. The $3.1 billion (5.9 percent) increase in average other retail loans was primarily due to higher auto, installment and retail leasing loans, partially offset by decreases in home equity loans and continued runoff of student
loan balances. Average commercial real estate loans decreased $963 million (2.2 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily the result of disciplined underwriting of construction and development loans, and customers paying down balances by
accessing the capital markets. Average covered loans decreased $776 million (18.4 percent), the result of portfolio  run-off. 

Table of Contents  

TABLE 2   

Analysis of Net Interest Income (a)   

(a)  
  Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent for the periods presented.     

(b)  
  See  Non-GAAP  Financial Measures beginning on page 66.     

(c)  
  Excludes unrealized gains and losses on   available-for-sale   investment securities and any premiums or discounts recorded related to the
transfer of investment securities at fair value from   available-for-sale   to
  held-to-maturity.       
    
  Average investment securities in 2017 were $3.9 billion (3.6 percent) higher than 2016,
primarily due to purchases of U.S. Treasury and U.S. government mortgage-backed securities, net of prepayments and maturities, in support of liquidity management requirements.  
 Average total deposits for 2017 were $20.7 billion (6.6 percent) higher than 2016. Average noninterest-bearing deposits for 2017 were
$757 million (0.9 percent) higher than the prior year, reflecting increases in Wealth Management and Investment Services, and Consumer and Business Banking balances, offset by a decrease in Corporate and Commercial Banking balances.
Average total savings deposits for 2017 were $19.2 billion (9.7 percent) higher than 2016, a result of growth across all business lines. Average time deposits for 2017 were $751 million (2.3 percent) higher than 2016.
Changes in time deposits are largely related to those deposits managed as an alternative to other funding sources such as wholesale borrowing, based largely on relative pricing and liquidity characteristics.  
 The $517 million (4.6 percent) increase in net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, in 2016 compared with 2015, was principally
driven by loan growth partially offset by a lower net interest margin. Average earning assets were $22.4 billion (6.1 percent) higher in 2016, compared with 2015, driven by increases in loans and in investment securities. The decrease
in the net interest margin was principally due to lower yields on purchased securities, lower reinvestment rates on maturing securities and maintaining higher cash balances.

Average total loans increased $17.3 billion (6.9 percent) in 2016, compared with 2015, driven
by growth in commercial, commercial real estate, residential mortgage, credit card and other retail loans, partially offset by a decrease in covered loans. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $8.0 billion
(9.5 percent) and $625 million (1.5 percent), respectively, driven by higher demand for loans from new and existing customers. The $3.8 billion (7.4 percent) increase in residential mortgages reflected higher origination
activity, including strong refinancing activities, in 2016 compared with 2015. Average credit card balances increased $2.4 billion (13.5 percent) in 2016, compared with 2015, due to customer growth, including a portfolio acquisition in
late 2015 which increased average 2016 credit card balances by $1.6 billion. The $3.3 billion (6.6 percent) increase in average other retail loans was primarily due to higher auto and installment loans, student loans, and home equity and
second mortgage loan balances. Average covered loans decreased $759 million (15.2 percent) in 2016, compared with 2015, the result of portfolio  run-off.   
 Average investment securities in 2016 were $4.8 billion (4.6 percent) higher than 2015, primarily due to purchases of U.S. Treasury and
U.S. government mortgage-backed securities, net of prepayments and maturities, in support of liquidity management.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 3   

Net Interest Income   Changes Due to Rate and Volume (a)   

(a)  
  This table shows the components of the change in net interest income by volume and rate on a taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent for the periods presented. This table does not take into
account the level of noninterest-bearing funding, nor does it fully reflect changes in the mix of assets and liabilities. The change in interest not solely due to changes in volume or rates has been allocated on a
 pro-rata  basis to volume and yield/rate.     
    
  Average total deposits for 2016 were $25.7 billion (8.9 percent) higher than 2015.
Average noninterest-bearing deposits for 2016 were $2.0 billion (2.5 percent) higher than the prior year, mainly in Consumer and Business Banking and Corporate and Commercial Banking. Average total savings deposits for 2016 were
$26.2 billion (15.2 percent) higher than 2015, reflecting growth in Corporate and Commercial Banking, Consumer and Business Banking, and Wealth Management and Investment Services balances. Average time deposits which are managed based
largely on relative pricing and liquidity characteristics, decreased $2.6 billion (7.2 percent) in 2016, compared with 2015.     Provision for Credit
Losses  The provision for credit losses reflects changes in the size and credit quality of the entire portfolio of loans. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses considered appropriate by management for probable and estimable
incurred losses, based on factors discussed in the  Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit Losses  section.

In 2017, the provision for credit losses was $1.4 billion, compared with $1.3 billion and
$1.1 billion in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The provision for credit losses was higher than net charge-offs by $60 million in 2017, higher than net charge-offs by $55 million in 2016 and lower than net charge-offs by $40 million
in 2015. The increase in the allowance for credit losses during 2017 reflected loan portfolio growth, the maturity of vintages within the credit card portfolio and exposures related to 2017 weather events, partially offset by improvements in the
energy and residential mortgage portfolios. Nonperforming assets decreased $403 million (25.1 percent) from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017, primarily driven by improvements in commercial loans, residential mortgages and other
real estate owned ( OREO ), partially offset by an increase in nonperforming commercial real estate loans. Net charge-offs increased $61 million (4.8 percent) in 2017 from 2016 primarily due to higher credit card and other
retail loan net charge-offs, partially offset by lower net charge-offs related to residential mortgages and commercial loan recoveries.

Table of Contents  

The increase in the allowance for credit losses during 2016 was driven by loan portfolio growth and
stress in the energy portfolio, partially offset by improvements in residential mortgage and home equity loans and lines. Nonperforming assets increased $80 million (5.3 percent) from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016, primarily
driven by an increase in nonperforming commercial loans within the energy portfolio, partially offset by improvements in the Company s residential portfolio due to improving economic conditions. Net charge-offs increased $97 million
(8.3 percent) in 2016 from 2015 primarily due to higher commercial loan net charge-offs and lower commercial real estate loan recoveries, partially offset by lower charge-offs related to residential mortgages and home equity loans.  
 Refer to  Corporate Risk Profile  for further information on the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs, nonperforming assets and
other factors considered by the Company in assessing the credit quality of the loan portfolio and establishing the allowance for credit losses.

Noninterest Income  Noninterest income in 2017 was $9.6 billion, compared with $9.6 billion in 2016 and
$9.1 billion in 2015. The $34 million (0.4 percent) increase in 2017 over 2016 was primarily due to increases in payment services revenue, trust and investment management fees, and treasury management fees, as well as higher gains on
sales of investment securities, partially offset by decreases in mortgage banking revenue and other noninterest income. Payment services revenue was higher in 2017, compared with 2016, due to a 6.4 percent increase in credit and debit card
revenue and a 5.8 percent increase in corporate payment products revenue, both driven by higher sales volumes. Trust and investment management fees were 6.7 percent higher due to favorable market conditions, and net asset and account
growth, while treasury management fees increased 6.0 percent due to higher transaction volume. Mortgage banking revenue decreased 14.8 percent in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to lower origination and sales volumes from home
refinancing activities which were higher in the prior year, and lower margins on mortgage loan sales. Other revenue was 13.4 percent lower in 2017 compared with 2016, primarily due to lower equity investment income, which was higher in 2016 due
to the sale of the Company s membership in Visa Europe Limited ( Visa Europe ) to Visa Inc. during that year.  

TABLE 4   

Noninterest Income  

*  
  Not meaningful.     

Table of Contents  

The $485 million (5.3 percent) increase in 2016 over 2015 was primarily due to higher
payment services revenue, trust and investment management fees, and mortgage banking revenue, as well as the impact of the Visa Europe sale. Credit and debit card revenue increased 10.0 percent in 2016 compared with 2015, reflecting higher
transaction volumes including the impact of acquired portfolios. Merchant processing services revenue was 2.9 percent higher as a result of an increase in product fees and higher transaction volumes. Trust and investment management fees
increased 8.0 percent in 2016, compared with 2015, reflecting lower money market fee waivers, along with account growth, an increase in assets under management and improved market conditions. Mortgage banking revenue increased 8.1 percent
in 2016 over 2015, driven by higher origination and sales volumes. In addition, other revenue was 9.5 percent higher in 2016 compared with 2015, reflecting the 2016 Visa Europe sale and the impact of a 2015 student loan market valuation
adjustment, partially offset by lower equity investment income and a 2015 gain recorded on the sale of a deposit portfolio.     Noninterest Expense  Noninterest
expense in 2017 was $12.9 billion, compared with $11.7 billion in 2016 and $10.9 billion in 2015. The Company s efficiency ratio was 58.8 percent in 2017, compared with 54.9 percent in 2016 and 53.8 percent in
2015. The $1.3 billion (10.9 percent) increase in noninterest expense in 2017 over 2016 was primarily due to higher compensation expense, marketing and business development expense and other expense, partially offset by lower professional
services expense. Compensation expense increased 10.2 percent in 2017 over 2016, principally due to the impact of hiring to support business growth and compliance programs, merit increases, higher variable compensation related to business
production and the 2017 special bonus awarded to eligible employees. Employee benefits expense was 6.0 percent higher primarily driven by increased medical costs. Marketing and business development expense was higher 24.6 percent,
primarily due to an increase in charitable contributions to the U.S.

Bank Foundation. Other expense increased 29.5 percent in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to the impact of the increase in reserves related to legal and regulatory matters recorded
during 2017 and the FDIC insurance surcharge which began in late 2016. During 2017, the Company recorded a $608 million accrual for regulatory and legal matters related to Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program adequacy and
investigations by the United States Attorney s Office in Manhattan into that program and U.S. Bank National Association s legacy relationship with a payday lending business associated with a former customer. Offsetting these increases was
a decrease in professional services expense of 16.5 percent, primarily due to fewer consulting services as compliance programs near maturity.  
 The $745 million (6.8 percent) increase in noninterest expense in 2016 over 2015 was primarily due to higher compensation costs,
professional services, marketing and business development, technology and communications, and other noninterest expenses, partially offset by lower employee benefits expense. Compensation expense increased 8.3 percent in 2016 over 2015,
principally due to the impact of hiring to support business growth and compliance programs, merit increases, and higher variable compensation. Professional services expense increased 18.7 percent primarily due to compliance programs and
implementation costs of capital investments to support business growth. Marketing and business development expense increased 20.5 percent in 2016 over 2015, resulting from the support of new business development and an increase in charitable
contributions to the U.S. Bank Foundation. Technology and communications expense increased 7.7 percent primarily due to capital investments and costs related to acquired portfolios. Further, other noninterest expense increased 8.6 percent
in 2016 over 2015, reflecting the impact of the FDIC surcharge, which began in late 2016, and higher accruals related to regulatory and legal matters. Offsetting these increases was a 4.1 percent decrease in employee benefits expense mainly due
to lower pension costs.  

TABLE 5   

Noninterest Expense  

(a)  
  See  Non-GAAP  Financial Measures beginning on page 66.     

Table of Contents  

Pension Plans  Because of the long-term nature of pension plans, the related accounting is complex and can be
impacted by several factors, including investment funding policies, accounting methods and actuarial assumptions.    The Company s pension
accounting reflects the long-term nature of the benefit obligations and the investment horizon of plan assets. Amounts recorded in the financial statements reflect actuarial assumptions about participant benefits and plan asset returns. Changes in
actuarial assumptions and differences in actual plan experience, compared with actuarial assumptions, are deferred and recognized in expense in future periods. Differences related to participant benefits are recognized in expense over the future
service period of the employees. Differences related to the expected return on plan assets are included in expense over a period of approximately 15 years.  
 Pension expense is expected to decrease by $57 million in 2018 primarily due to expected earnings on higher plan assets due to Company
contributions in 2017, partially offset by a lower discount rate. Because of the complexity of forecasting pension plan activities, the accounting methods utilized for pension plans, the Company s ability to respond to factors affecting the
plans and the hypothetical nature of actuarial assumptions, the actual pension expense decrease may differ from the expected amount. Additionally, as a result of new pension accounting guidance effective January 1, 2018, non-service cost
components will be reclassified to other noninterest expense. The combination of the decreased pension expense and the adoption of the new standard will result in an increase in 2018 employee benefits expense of $13 million and a decrease in
other noninterest expense of $70 million, compared with 2017.    Refer to Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for further information on the Company s pension plan funding practices, investment policies and asset allocation strategies, and accounting policies for pension plans.  
 The following table shows an analysis of hypothetical changes in the discount rate and long-term rate of return ( LTROR ):  
   
    Income Tax Expense  In late 2017, tax reform legislation was enacted that, among other provisions, reduced the federal statutory
rate for corporations from 35 percent to 21 percent effective in 2018. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), the Company revalued its deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017,
resulting in an estimated net tax benefit of $910 million, which the Company recorded in 2017. The 2017 provision for income taxes, reflecting this benefit, was $1.3 billion (an effective rate of 16.8 percent), compared with a provision
for income taxes of

$2.2 billion (an effective rate of 26.7 percent) in 2016 and $2.1 billion (an effective rate of 26.1 percent) in 2015.  
 For further information on income taxes, refer to Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Balance Sheet Analysis     Average earning assets were $406.4 billion in
2017, compared with $389.9 billion in 2016. The increase in average earning assets of $16.5 billion (4.2 percent) was primarily due to increases in loans of $8.7 billion (3.3 percent), other earning assets of
$4.5 billion (45.4 percent) and investment securities of $3.9 billion (3.6 percent).    For average balance information, refer to
Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates on pages 144 and 145.     Loans  The Company s loan portfolio was
$280.4 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $273.2 billion at December 31, 2016, an increase of $7.2 billion (2.6 percent). The increase was driven by increases in commercial loans of $4.2 billion
(4.5 percent), other retail loans of $3.5 billion (6.4 percent), residential mortgages of $2.5 billion (4.4 percent) and credit card loans of $431 million (2.0 percent), partially offset by a decrease in commercial real estate
loans of $2.6 billion (6.1 percent) and covered loans of $715 million (18.6 percent). Table 6 provides a summary of the loan distribution by product type, while Table 12 provides a summary of the selected loan maturity distribution by
loan category. Average total loans increased $8.7 billion (3.3 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. The increase was due to growth in most loan portfolio classes in 2017.  
   Commercial     Commercial loans, including lease financing, increased $4.2 billion (4.5 percent) at December 31, 2017, compared
with December 31, 2016. Average commercial loans increased $3.9 billion (4.2 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. The growth was primarily driven by higher demand from new and existing customers. Table 7 provides a summary of
commercial loans by industry and geographical locations.      Commercial Real Estate   The Company s portfolio of commercial real estate loans, which
includes commercial mortgages and construction and development loans, decreased $2.6 billion (6.1 percent) at December 31, 2017, compared with December 31, 2016, primarily the result of disciplined underwriting of construction and
development loans and customers paying down balances by accessing the capital markets for funding. Average commercial real estate loans decreased $963 million (2.2 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Table 8 provides a summary of
commercial real estate loans by property type and geographical location.    The Company reclassifies construction loans to the commercial mortgage
category if permanent financing is provided by the Company. In 2017, approximately $521 million of construction loans were reclassified to the commercial mortgage category. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $161 million and

Table of Contents  

TABLE 6   

Loan Portfolio Distribution  

$146 million, respectively, of  tax-exempt  industrial development loans were
secured by real estate. The Company s commercial mortgage and construction and development loans had unfunded commitments of $10.1 billion and $10.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
 The Company also finances the operations of real estate developers and other entities with operations related to real

estate. These loans are not secured directly by real estate but are subject to terms and conditions similar to commercial loans. These loans were included in the commercial loan category and
totaled $7.0 billion and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 7   

Commercial Loans by Industry Group and Geography  

Residential Mortgages   Residential mortgages held in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2017, increased
$2.5 billion (4.4 percent) over December 31, 2016, as origination activity more than offset the effect of customers paying down balances during 2017. Average residential mortgages increased $3.1 billion (5.6 percent) in
2017, compared with 2016. Residential mortgages originated and placed in the Company s loan portfolio include well-secured jumbo mortgages and branch-originated first lien home equity loans to borrowers with high credit quality.

Credit Card   Total credit card loans increased $431 million (2.0 percent) at
December 31, 2017, compared with December 31, 2016, reflecting new and existing customer growth during the year. Average credit card balances increased $416 million (2.0 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016.

Table of Contents  

TABLE 8   

Commercial Real Estate Loans by Property Type and Geography  

Other Retail   Total other retail loans, which include retail leasing, home equity and second mortgages and
other retail loans, increased $3.5 billion (6.4 percent) at December 31, 2017, compared with December 31, 2016, reflecting higher retail leasing loans, auto loans and installment loans, partially offset by lower student
loans, home equity loans and revolving credit balances. Average other retail loans increased $3.1 billion (5.9 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. The increase was primarily due to higher auto, installment and retail leasing loans, partially
offset by decreases in student loans and home equity loans. Of the total residential mortgages, credit card and other

retail loans outstanding at December 31, 2017, approximately 72.7 percent were to customers located in the Company s primary banking region compared with 73.3 percent at
December 31, 2016. Tables 9, 10 and 11 provide a geographic summary of residential mortgages, credit card loans and other retail loans outstanding, respectively, as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. The collateral for $2.2 billion of
residential mortgages and other retail loans included in covered loans at December 31, 2017 was in California, compared with $2.6 billion at December 31, 2016.

Table of Contents  

TABLE 9   

Residential Mortgages by Geography  

TABLE 10   

Credit Card Loans by Geography  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 11   

Other Retail Loans by Geography  

The Company generally retains portfolio loans through maturity; however, the Company s intent may
change over time based upon various factors such as ongoing asset/liability management activities, assessment of product profitability, credit risk, liquidity needs, and capital implications. If the Company s intent or ability to hold an
existing portfolio loan changes, it is transferred to loans held for sale.     Loans Held for Sale  Loans held for sale, consisting primarily of residential
mortgages to be sold in the secondary market, were

$3.6 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $4.8 billion at December 31, 2016. The decrease in loans held for sale was principally due to a lower level of mortgage loan
closings in late 2017, compared with the same period of 2016. Almost all of the residential mortgage loans the Company originates or purchases for sale follow guidelines that allow the loans to be sold into existing, highly liquid secondary markets;
in particular in government agency transactions and to government sponsored enterprises ( GSEs ).  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 12   

Selected Loan Maturity Distribution  

Investment Securities  The Company uses its investment securities portfolio to manage interest rate risk, provide
liquidity (including the ability to meet regulatory requirements), generate interest and dividend income, and as collateral for public deposits and wholesale funding sources. While the Company intends to hold its investment securities indefinitely,
it may sell   available-for-sale   securities in response to structural changes in the balance sheet and related interest rate risk and to meet liquidity requirements, among
other factors.    Investment securities totaled $112.5 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $109.3 billion at
December 31, 2016. The $3.2 billion (3.0 percent) increase reflected $3.1 billion of net investment purchases and a $121 million favorable change in net unrealized gains (losses) on   available-for-sale   investment securities.    Average investment securities were $111.8 billion in
2017, compared with $107.9 billion in 2016. The weighted-average yield of the   available-for-sale   portfolio was 2.25 percent at December 31, 2017, compared
with 2.06 percent at December 31, 2016. The weighted-average maturity of the   available-for-sale   portfolio was 5.1 years at both December 31, 2017 and
2016. The weighted-average yield of the   held-to-maturity   portfolio was 2.14 percent at December 31, 2017, compared with 1.93 percent at December 31,
2016. The weighted-average maturity of the   held-to-maturity   portfolio was 4.7 years at December 31, 2017, compared with 4.6 years at December 31, 2016.
Investment securities by type are shown in Table 13.  
 
  The Company s
  available-for-sale   securities are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in other comprehensive income (loss) unless a security is deemed to be
other-than-temporarily impaired. At December 31, 2017, the Company s net unrealized losses on   available-for-sale   securities were $580 million, compared
with $701 million at December 31, 2016. The favorable change in net unrealized gains (losses) was primarily due to increases in the fair value of state and political securities as a result of changes in interest rates. Gross unrealized
losses on   available-for-sale   securities totaled $888 million at December 31, 2017, compared with $1.0 billion at December 31, 2016. The Company
conducts a regular assessment of its investment portfolio to determine whether any securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. When assessing unrealized losses for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company considers the nature of the
investment, the financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of unrealized losses, expected cash flows of underlying assets and market conditions. At December 31, 2017, the Company had no plans to sell securities with unrealized
losses, and believes it is more likely than not that it would not be required to sell such securities before recovery of their amortized cost.  
 Refer to Notes 4 and 21 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on investment securities.

Table of Contents  

TABLE 13   

Investment Securities  

(a)  
  Information related to asset and mortgage-backed securities included above is presented based upon weighted-average maturities anticipating future prepayments.     

(b)  
  Information related to obligations of state and political subdivisions is presented based upon yield to first optional call date if the security is purchased at a premium, yield to maturity if purchased at par or a
discount.     

(c)  
  Maturity calculations for obligations of state and political subdivisions are based on the first optional call date for securities with a fair value above par and contractual maturity for securities with a fair value
equal to or below par.     

(d)  
  The weighted-average maturity of the   available-for-sale   investment securities was 5.1 years at December 31, 2016, with a
corresponding weighted-average yield of 2.06 percent. The weighted-average maturity of the   held-to-maturity   investment securities was 4.6 years at December 31,
2016, with a corresponding weighted-average yield of 1.93 percent.     

(e)  
  Weighted-average yields for obligations of state and political subdivisions are presented on a fully-taxable equivalent basis under a federal income tax rate of 35 percent for the periods presented. Yields on  available-for-sale  and   held-to-maturity   investment securities are computed based on amortized cost balances, excluding any premiums or
discounts recorded related to the transfer of investment securities at fair value from   available-for-sale   to   held-to-maturity.   Weighted-average yield and maturity calculations exclude equity securities that have no stated yield or maturity.     

Table of Contents  

The composition of deposits was as follows:      
   The maturity of time deposits was as follows:      

Deposits  Total deposits were $347.2 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $334.6 billion at
December 31, 2016. The $12.6 billion (3.8 percent) increase in total deposits reflected increases in total savings, time and noninterest-bearing deposits. Average total deposits in 2017 increased $20.7 billion (6.6 percent) over 2016.
   Interest-bearing savings deposits increased $8.3 billion (3.8 percent) at December 31, 2017, compared with December 31, 2016.
The increase was related to higher interest checking and savings account balances, partially offset by lower money market deposit balances. Interest checking balances increased $8.2 billion (12.4 percent) primarily due to higher
Wealth Management and Investment Services, Consumer and Business Banking, and Corporate and Commercial Banking balances. Savings account balances increased $2.0 billion (4.8 percent), primarily due to higher Consumer and Business Banking
balances. Money market deposit balances decreased $2.0 billion (1.8 percent), primarily due to lower Corporate and Commercial Banking balances, partially offset by higher Wealth Management and Investment Services balances. Average
interest-bearing savings deposits in 2017 increased $19.2 billion (9.7 percent), compared with 2016, reflecting growth across all business lines.  
 Interest-bearing time deposits at December 31, 2017, increased $2.9 billion (9.5 percent), compared with December 31, 2016. Average
time deposits increased $751 million (2.3 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. The increases were primarily driven by increases in those deposits managed as an

alternative to other funding sources such as wholesale borrowing, based largely on relative pricing and liquidity characteristics.  
 Noninterest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2017, increased $1.5 billion (1.7 percent) from December 31, 2016. Average
noninterest-bearing deposits increased $757 million (0.9 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. The increases were primarily due to higher Wealth Management and Investment Services, and Consumer and Business Banking balances, partially
offset by lower Corporate and Commercial Banking balances.     Borrowings  The Company utilizes both short-term and long-term borrowings as part of its
asset/liability management and funding strategies. Short-term borrowings, which include federal funds purchased, commercial paper, repurchase agreements, borrowings secured by high-grade assets and other short-term borrowings, were
$16.7 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $14.0 billion at December 31, 2016. The $2.7 billion (19.3 percent) increase in short-term borrowings was primarily due to higher other short-term borrowings
balances, partially offset by lower commercial paper and federal funds purchased balances.    Long-term debt was $32.3 billion at
December 31, 2017, compared with $33.3 billion at December 31, 2016. The $1.0 billion (3.2 percent) decrease was primarily due to $6.9 billion of bank note and medium-term note repayments and maturities and a $3.1
billion decrease in Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) advances, partially offset by the issuances of $3.9 billion of medium-term notes and $4.9 billion of bank notes.

Table of Contents  

Refer to Notes 12 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding short-term borrowings and long-term debt, and the  Liquidity Risk Management  section for discussion of liquidity management of the Company.  
  Corporate Risk Profile      Overview  Managing risks is an essential part
of successfully operating a financial services company. The Company s Board of Directors has approved a risk management framework which establishes governance and risk management requirements for all risk-taking activities. This framework
includes Company and business line risk appetite statements which set boundaries for the types and amount of risk that may be undertaken in pursuing business objectives and initiatives. The Board of Directors, primarily through its Risk Management
Committee, oversees performance relative to the risk management framework, risk appetite statements, and other policy requirements.    The Executive
Risk Committee ( ERC ), which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and includes the Chief Executive Officer and other members of the executive management team, oversees execution against the risk management framework and risk appetite
statements. The ERC focuses on current and emerging risks, including strategic and reputational risks, by directing timely and comprehensive actions. Senior operating committees have also been established, each responsible for overseeing a specified
category of risk.    The Company s most prominent risk exposures are credit, interest rate, market, liquidity, operational, compliance,
strategic, and reputational. Credit risk is the risk of not collecting the interest and/or the principal balance of a loan, investment or derivative contract when it is due. Interest rate risk is the potential reduction of net interest income or
market valuations as a result of changes in interest rates. Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and security prices that may result in changes in the values of financial instruments, such as trading and   available-for-sale   securities, mortgage loans held for sale ( MLHFS ), mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) and derivatives that are accounted for on a fair
value basis. Liquidity risk is the possible inability to fund obligations or new business at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or
from external events, including the risk of loss resulting from breaches in data security. Operational risk can also include the risk of loss due to failures by third parties with which the Company does business. Compliance risk is the risk of loss
arising from violations of, or nonconformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies, and procedures, or ethical standards, potentially exposing the Company to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages and the
voiding of contracts. Strategic risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition arising from adverse business decisions, poor implementation of business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the banking industry and
operating

environment. Reputational risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or franchise or enterprise value arising from negative public opinion. This risk may impair the
Company s competitiveness by affecting its ability to establish new relationships, offer new services or continue serving existing relationships. In addition to the risks identified above, other risk factors exist that may impact the Company.
Refer to  Risk Factors  beginning on page 146, for a detailed discussion of these factors.    The Company s Board and
management-level governance committees are supported by a  three lines of defense  model for establishing effective checks and balances. The first line of defense, the business lines, manages risks in conformity with established limits and
policy requirements. In turn, business line leaders and their risk officers establish programs to ensure conformity with these limits and policy requirements. The second line of defense, which includes the Chief Risk Officer s organization as
well as policy and oversight activities of corporate support functions, translates risk appetite and strategy into actionable risk limits and policies. The second line of defense monitors first line of defense conformity with limits and policies,
and provides reporting and escalation of emerging risks and other concerns to senior management and the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors. The third line of defense, internal audit, is responsible for providing the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors and senior management with independent assessment and assurance regarding the effectiveness of the Company s governance, risk management, and control processes.  
 Management regularly provides reports to the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors. The Risk Management Committee discusses with
management the Company s risk management performance, and provides a summary of key risks to the entire Board of Directors, covering the status of existing matters, areas of potential future concern and specific information on certain types of
loss events. The Risk Management Committee considers quarterly reports by management assessing the Company s performance relative to the risk appetite statements and the associated risk limits, including:  

Qualitative considerations, such as the macroeconomic environment, regulatory and compliance changes, litigation developments, and technology and cybersecurity;    

Capital ratios and projections, including regulatory measures and stressed scenarios;        

Credit measures, including adversely rated and nonperforming loans, leveraged transactions, credit concentrations and lending limits;    

Interest rate and market risk, including market value and net income simulation, and trading-related Value at Risk ( VaR     

Liquidity risk, including funding projections under various stressed scenarios;    

Table of Contents  

Operational and compliance risk, including losses stemming from events such as fraud, processing errors, control breaches, breaches in data security or adverse business decisions, as well as reporting on technology
performance, and various legal and regulatory compliance measures; and        

Reputational and strategic risk considerations, impacts and responses.       Credit Risk Management  The Company s
strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined, centralized credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all commercial and consumer credit exposures. The strategy also emphasizes
diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of loans exhibiting deterioration of credit quality. The Risk Management Committee oversees the Company s credit risk management
process.    In addition, credit quality ratings as defined by the Company, are an important part of the Company s overall credit risk
management and evaluation of its allowance for credit losses. Loans with a pass rating represent those loans not classified on the Company s rating scale for problem credits, as minimal risk has been identified. Loans with a special mention or
classified rating, including loans that are 90 days or more past due and still accruing, nonaccrual loans, those loans considered troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs ), and loans in a junior lien position that are current but are
behind a modified or delinquent loan in a first lien position, encompass all loans held by the Company that it considers to have a potential or well-defined weakness that may put full collection of contractual cash flows at risk. The Company s
internal credit quality ratings for consumer loans are primarily based on delinquency and nonperforming status, except for a limited population of larger loans within those portfolios that are individually evaluated. For this limited population, the
determination of the internal credit quality rating may also consider collateral value and customer cash flows. The Company strives to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate
allowance levels for probable incurred loan losses. Refer to Notes 1 and 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s loan portfolios including internal credit quality ratings.  
 The Company categorizes its loan portfolio into three segments, which is the level at which it develops and documents a systematic methodology to
determine the allowance for credit losses. The Company s three loan portfolio segments are commercial lending, consumer lending and covered loans.  
 The commercial lending segment includes loans and leases made to small business, middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, financial
institution,  non-profit  and public sector customers. Key risk characteristics relevant to commercial lending segment loans include the industry and geography of the borrower s business, purpose of the
loan, repayment source, borrower s debt capacity and financial flexibility, loan covenants, and nature of pledged collateral, if any. These risk characteristics, among others, are considered in determining estimates about the

likelihood of default by the borrowers and the severity of loss in the event of default. The Company considers these risk characteristics in assigning internal risk ratings to, or forecasting
losses on, these loans, which are the significant factors in determining the allowance for credit losses for loans in the commercial lending segment.  
 The consumer lending segment represents loans and leases made to consumer customers, including residential mortgages, credit card loans, and other
retail loans such as revolving consumer lines, auto loans and leases, home equity loans and lines, and student loans, a  run-off  portfolio. Home equity or second mortgage loans are junior lien  closed-end  accounts fully disbursed at origination. These loans typically are fixed rate loans, secured by residential real estate, with a  10-  or  15-year  fixed payment amortization schedule. Home equity lines are revolving accounts giving the borrower the ability to draw and repay balances repeatedly, up to a maximum commitment, and are secured by residential
real estate. These include accounts in either a first or junior lien position. Typical terms on home equity lines in the portfolio are variable rates benchmarked to the prime rate, with a  10-  or  15-year  draw period during which a minimum payment is equivalent to the monthly interest, followed by a  20-  or  10-year  amortization
period, respectively. At December 31, 2017, substantially all of the Company s home equity lines were in the draw period. Approximately $1.3 billion, or 9 percent, of the outstanding home equity line balances at December 31,
2017, will enter the amortization period within the next 36 months. Key risk characteristics relevant to consumer lending segment loans primarily relate to the borrowers  capacity and willingness to repay and include unemployment rates and
other economic factors, customer payment history and credit scores, and in some cases, updated   loan-to-value   ( LTV ) information reflecting current market
conditions on real estate based loans. These risk characteristics, among others, are reflected in forecasts of delinquency levels, bankruptcies and losses which are the primary factors in determining the allowance for credit losses for the consumer
lending segment.    The covered loan segment represents loans acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions that are covered by loss sharing agreements
with the FDIC that greatly reduce the risk of future credit losses to the Company. Key risk characteristics for covered segment loans are consistent with the segment they would otherwise be included in had the loss share coverage not been in place,
but consider the indemnification provided by the FDIC.    The Company further disaggregates its loan portfolio segments into various classes based
on their underlying risk characteristics. The two classes within the commercial lending segment are commercial loans and commercial real estate loans. The three classes within the consumer lending segment are residential mortgages, credit card loans
and other retail loans. The covered loan segment consists of only one class.    Because business processes and credit risks associated with unfunded
credit commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments. The Company also

Table of Contents  

engages in  non-lending  activities that may give rise to credit risk, including derivative transactions for balance sheet hedging purposes, foreign exchange
transactions, deposit overdrafts and interest rate contracts for customers, investments in securities and other financial assets, and settlement risk, including Automated Clearing House transactions and the processing of credit card transactions for
merchants. These activities are subject to credit review, analysis and approval processes.      Economic and Other Factors   In evaluating its credit risk,
the Company considers changes, if any, in underwriting activities, the loan portfolio composition (including product mix and geographic, industry or customer-specific concentrations), collateral values, trends in loan performance and macroeconomic
factors, such as changes in unemployment rates, gross domestic product and consumer bankruptcy filings.    Over the past several years, economic
conditions have generally stabilized and the financial markets have slowly improved. During 2017, the domestic economy expanded at a moderate rate and the labor market continued to strengthen. Consumer spending has grown due to ongoing job gains and
relatively high levels of household wealth and consumer confidence. Business investment has also strengthened moderately, including an upturn in investment in the energy sector as oil prices have stabilized. In late 2017, tax reform legislation was
enacted that reduced the federal statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective in 2018. The Federal Reserve Bank continued to slowly increase short-term interest rates during 2017, in conjunction with the improving economy.
Periodic increases in interest rates are anticipated to continue over the next few years, as economic conditions are expected to continue to improve. In addition, global economic conditions improved during 2017, reflecting higher consumer
confidence, increased business investment and reduced political risks. However, uncertainty remains around the impact of recent or future changes in domestic economic, trade and tax policies. Current or anticipated changes to these policies that
lessen their expansionary effect on the domestic economy could slow the expansion of the domestic and global economies.      Credit Diversification   The
Company manages its credit risk, in part, through diversification of its loan portfolio which is achieved through limit setting by product type criteria, such as industry, and identification of credit concentrations. As part of its normal business
activities, the Company offers a broad array of traditional commercial lending products and specialized products such as asset-based lending, commercial lease financing, agricultural credit, warehouse mortgage lending, small business lending,
commercial real estate lending, health care lending and correspondent banking financing. The Company also offers an array of consumer lending products, including residential mortgages, credit card loans, auto loans, retail leases, home equity loans
and lines, revolving credit and other consumer loans. These consumer lending products are primarily offered through the branch office network, home mortgage and loan production

offices, mobile and  on-line  banking, and indirect distribution channels, such as auto dealers. The Company monitors and manages the portfolio
diversification by industry, customer and geography. Table 6 provides information with respect to the overall product diversification and changes in the mix during 2017.  
 The commercial loan class is diversified among various industries with higher concentrations in manufacturing, retail trade, finance and insurance,
wholesale trade, and real estate, rental and leasing. Additionally, the commercial loan class is diversified across the Company s geographical markets with 64.5 percent of total commercial loans within the Company s Consumer and
Business Banking region. Credit relationships outside of the Company s Consumer and Business Banking region relate to the corporate banking, mortgage banking, auto dealer and leasing businesses, focusing on large national customers and
specifically targeted industries, such as healthcare, utilities, energy and public administration. Loans to mortgage banking customers are primarily warehouse lines which are collateralized with the underlying mortgages. The Company regularly
monitors its mortgage collateral position to manage its risk exposure. Table 7 provides a summary of significant industry groups and geographical locations of commercial loans outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
 The commercial real estate loan class reflects the Company s focus on serving business owners within its geographic footprint as well as regional
and national investment-based real estate owners and builders. Within the commercial real estate loan class, different property types have varying degrees of credit risk. Table 8 provides a summary of the significant property types and geographical
locations of commercial real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016. At December 31, 2017, approximately 25.2 percent of the commercial real estate loans represented business owner-occupied properties that tend to
exhibit less credit risk than non owner-occupied properties. The investment-based real estate mortgages are diversified among various property types with somewhat higher concentrations in multi-family, office and retail properties. From a
geographical perspective, the Company s commercial real estate loan class is generally well diversified. However, at December 31, 2017, 23.6 percent of the Company s commercial real estate loans were secured by collateral in
California, which has historically experienced higher credit quality deterioration in recessionary periods due to excess inventory levels and declining valuations. Included in commercial real estate at
 year-end  2017 was approximately $423 million in loans related to land held for development and $521 million of loans related to residential and commercial acquisition and development properties.
These loans are subject to quarterly monitoring for changes in local market conditions due to a higher credit risk profile. The commercial real estate loan class is diversified across the Company s geographical markets with 82.9 percent of
total commercial real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2017, within the Company s Consumer and Business Banking region.

Table of Contents  

The Company s consumer lending segment utilizes several distinct business processes and channels
to originate consumer credit, including traditional branch lending, mobile and  on-line  banking, indirect lending, correspondent banks and loan brokers. Each distinct underwriting and origination activity
manages unique credit risk characteristics and prices its loan production commensurate with the differing risk profiles.    Residential mortgage
originations are generally limited to prime borrowers and are performed through the Company s branches, loan production offices, mobile and  on-line  services, and a wholesale network of originators. The
Company may retain residential mortgage loans it originates on its balance sheet or sell the loans into the secondary market while retaining the servicing rights and customer relationships. Utilizing the secondary markets enables the Company to
effectively reduce its credit and other asset/liability risks. For residential mortgages that are retained in the Company s portfolio and for home equity and second mortgages, credit risk is also diversified by geography and managed by
adherence to LTV and borrower credit criteria during the underwriting process.    The Company estimates updated LTV information on its outstanding
residential mortgages quarterly, based on a method that combines automated valuation model updates and relevant home price indices. LTV is the ratio of the loan s outstanding principal balance to the current estimate of property value. For home
equity and second mortgages, combined   loan-to-value   ( CLTV ) is the combination of the first mortgage original principal balance and the second lien
outstanding principal balance, relative to the current estimate of property value. Certain loans do not have a LTV or CLTV, primarily due to lack of availability of relevant automated valuation model and/or home price indices values, or lack of
necessary valuation data on acquired loans.  
 
  The following tables provide summary information of residential mortgages and home equity and second mortgages by LTV and
borrower type at December 31, 2017:      

(a)  
  Represents loans purchased from Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose payments are primarily insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs.         

Table of Contents  

The total amount of consumer lending segment residential mortgage, home equity and second mortgage
loans to customers that may be defined as  sub-prime  borrowers represented only 0.2 percent of the Company s total assets at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The Company considers  sub-prime  loans to be those made to borrowers with a risk of default significantly higher than those approved for prime lending programs, as reflected in credit scores obtained from independent agencies at loan
origination, in addition to other credit underwriting criteria.  Sub-prime  portfolios include only loans originated according to the Company s underwriting programs specifically designed to serve customers
with weakened credit histories. The  sub-prime  designation indicators have been and will continue to be subject to  re-evaluation  over time as borrower characteristics,
payment performance and economic conditions change. The  sub-prime  loans originated during periods from June 2009 and after are with borrowers who met the Company s program guidelines and have a credit
score that generally is at or below a threshold of 620 to 650 depending on the program.  Sub-prime  loans originated during periods prior to June 2009 were based upon program level guidelines without regard to
credit score.    Home equity and second mortgages were $16.3 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $16.4 billion at
December 31, 2016, and included $4.6 billion of home equity lines in a first lien position and $11.7 billion of home equity and second mortgage loans and lines in a junior lien position. Loans and lines in a junior lien position at
December 31, 2017, included approximately $4.9 billion of loans and lines for which the Company also serviced the related first lien loan, and approximately $6.8 billion where the Company did not service the related first lien loan.
The Company was able to determine the status of the related first liens using information the Company has as the servicer of the first lien or information reported on customer credit bureau files. The Company also evaluates other indicators of
credit risk for these junior lien loans and lines including delinquency, estimated average CLTV ratios and updated weighted-average credit scores in making its assessment of credit risk, related loss estimates and determining the allowance for
credit losses.  
 
  The following table provides a summary of delinquency statistics and other credit quality indicators for the
Company s junior lien positions at December 31, 2017:      
   See the  Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses  section for additional information
on how the Company determines the allowance for credit losses for loans in a junior lien position.    Credit card and other retail loans are
diversified across customer segment and geographies. Diversification in the credit card portfolio is achieved with broad customer relationship distribution through the Company s and financial institution partner branches, retail and affinity
partners, and digital channels.    Tables 9, 10 and 11 provide a geographical summary of the residential mortgage, credit card and other retail loan
portfolios, respectively.    Covered assets were acquired by the Company in FDIC-assisted transactions and include loans with characteristics
indicative of a high credit risk profile, including a substantial concentration of loans in California and loans with negative-amortization payment options. Because these loans are covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, the
Company s financial exposure to losses from these assets is substantially reduced. To the extent actual losses exceed the Company s estimates at acquisition, the Company s financial risk would only be its share of those losses under
the loss sharing agreements. As of December 31, 2017, the loss share coverage provided by the FDIC has expired on all previously covered assets, except for residential mortgages and home equity and second mortgage loans that remain covered
under loss sharing agreements with remaining terms up through the fourth quarter of 2019.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 15   

Delinquent Loan Ratios as a Percent of Ending Loan Balances  

Loan Delinquencies   Trends in delinquency ratios are an indicator, among other considerations, of credit
risk within the Company s loan portfolios. The entire balance of an account is considered delinquent if the minimum payment contractually required to be made is not received by the specified date on the billing statement. The Company measures
delinquencies, both including and excluding nonperforming loans, to enable comparability with other companies. Delinquent loans purchased from Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments are primarily
insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, as well as student loans guaranteed by the federal government, are excluded from delinquency statistics. In addition, in certain
situations, a consumer lending customer s account may be  re-aged  to remove it from delinquent status. Generally, the purpose of  re-aging  accounts is to assist
customers who have recently overcome temporary financial difficulties, and have demonstrated both the ability and willingness to resume regular payments. To qualify for  re-aging,  the account must have been
open for at least

nine months and cannot have been  re-aged  during the preceding 365 days. An account may not be  re-aged  more
than two times in a five-year period. To qualify for  re-aging,  the customer must also have made three regular minimum monthly payments within the last 90 days. In addition, the Company may  re-age  the consumer lending account of a customer who has experienced longer-term financial difficulties and apply modified, concessionary terms and conditions to the account. Such additional  re-ages  are limited to one in a five-year period and must meet the qualifications for  re-aging  described above. All  re-aging  strategies
must be independently approved by the Company s risk management department. Commercial lending loans are generally not subject to  re-aging  policies.  
 Accruing loans 90 days or more past due totaled $720 million ($572 million excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2017, compared with
$764 million ($552 million excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2016, and $831 million ($541 million excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2015. Accruing loans 90 days or more past due are not included in
nonperforming assets and continue to accrue interest because they are  

Table of Contents  

adequately secured by collateral, are in the process of collection and are reasonably expected to result in repayment or restoration to current status, or are managed in homogeneous portfolios
with specified  charge-off  timeframes adhering to regulatory guidelines. The ratio of accruing loans 90 days or more past due to total loans was 0.26 percent (0.21 percent excluding covered
loans) at December 31, 2017, compared with 0.28 percent (0.20 percent excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2016, and 0.32 percent (0.21 percent excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2015.  
 The following table provides summary delinquency information for residential mortgages, credit card and other retail loans included in the consumer lending segment:

(b)  
  Includes revolving credit, installment, automobile and student loans.           The following
table provides summary delinquency information for covered loans:      
     Restructured Loans   In certain circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to maximize the collection of

amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience difficulties in the near-term. In most cases the modification is either a concessionary reduction
in interest rate, extension of the maturity date or reduction in the principal balance that would otherwise not be considered.      Troubled Debt
Restructurings   Concessionary modifications are classified as TDRs unless the modification results in only an insignificant delay in the payments to be received. TDRs accrue interest if the borrower complies with the revised terms and
conditions and has demonstrated repayment performance at a level commensurate with the modified terms over several payment cycles, which is generally six months or greater. At December 31, 2017, performing TDRs were $4.0 billion, compared
with $4.2 billion, $4.7 billion, $5.1 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans for reporting and measurement purposes.  
 The Company continues to work with customers to modify loans for borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties, including those loans acquired
through FDIC-assisted acquisitions. Many of the Company s TDRs are determined on a   case-by-case   basis in connection with ongoing loan collection processes. The
modifications vary within each of the Company s loan classes. Commercial lending segment TDRs generally include extensions of the maturity date and may be accompanied by an increase or decrease to the interest rate. The Company may also work
with the borrower to make other changes to the loan to mitigate losses, such as obtaining additional collateral and/or guarantees to support the loan.  
 The Company has also implemented certain residential mortgage loan restructuring programs that may result in TDRs. The Company modifies residential
mortgage loans under Federal Housing Administration, United States Department of Veterans Affairs, and its own internal programs. Under these programs, the Company offers qualifying homeowners the opportunity to permanently modify their loan and
achieve more affordable monthly payments by providing loan concessions. These concessions may include adjustments to interest rates, conversion of adjustable rates to fixed rates, extensions of maturity dates or deferrals of payments, capitalization
of accrued interest and/or outstanding advances, or in limited situations, partial forgiveness of loan principal. In most instances, participation in residential mortgage loan restructuring programs requires the customer to complete a short-term
trial period. A permanent loan modification is contingent on the customer successfully completing the trial period arrangement and the loan documents are not modified until that time. The Company reports loans in a trial period arrangement as TDRs
and continues to report them as TDRs after the trial period.    Credit card and other retail loan TDRs are generally part of distinct restructuring
programs providing customers modification solutions over a specified time period, generally up to 60 months.    In accordance with regulatory
guidance, the Company considers secured consumer loans that have had debt discharged through bankruptcy where the borrower has not

Table of Contents  

reaffirmed the debt to be TDRs. If the loan amount exceeds the collateral value, the loan is charged down to collateral value and the remaining amount is reported as nonperforming.  
 Modifications to loans in the covered segment are similar in nature to that described above for  non-covered 
loans, and the evaluation and determination of TDR status is similar, except that acquired loans restructured after acquisition are not considered

TDRs for purposes of the Company s accounting and disclosure if the loans evidenced credit deterioration as of the acquisition date and are accounted for in pools. Losses associated with
modifications on covered loans, including the economic impact of interest rate reductions, are generally eligible for reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements.

The following table provides a summary of TDRs by
loan class, including the delinquency status for TDRs that continue to accrue interest and TDRs included in nonperforming assets:      

(a)  
  Primarily represents loans less than six months from the modification date that have not met the performance period required to return to accrual status (generally six months) and small business credit cards with a
modified rate equal to 0 percent.     

(b)  
  Primarily represents loans less than six months from the modification date that have not met the performance period required to return to accrual status (generally six months).     

(c)  
  Primarily represents loans with a modified rate equal to 0 percent.     

(d)  
  Includes $337 million of residential mortgage loans to borrowers that have had debt discharged through bankruptcy and $42 million in trial period arrangements or previously placed in trial period
arrangements but not successfully completed.     

(e)  
  Includes $78 million of other retail loans to borrowers that have had debt discharged through bankruptcy and $11 million in trial period arrangements or previously placed in trial period arrangements but
not successfully completed.     

(f)  
  Includes $264 million of Federal Housing Administration and United States Department of Veterans Affairs residential mortgage loans to borrowers that have had debt discharged through bankruptcy and
$344 million in trial period arrangements or previously placed in trial period arrangements but not successfully completed.     

(g)  
  Approximately 6.0 percent and 46.0 percent of the total TDR loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools are  30-89  days past due and 90 days or more past due,
respectively, but are not classified as delinquent as their repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.     

Table of Contents  

Short-term Modifications   The Company makes short-term modifications that it does not consider to be TDRs,
in limited circumstances, to assist borrowers experiencing temporary hardships. Consumer lending programs include payment reductions, deferrals of up to three past due payments, and the ability to return to current status if the borrower makes
required payments. The Company may also make short-term modifications to commercial lending loans, with the most common modification being an extension of the maturity date of three months or less. Such extensions generally are used when the
maturity date is imminent and the borrower is experiencing some level of financial stress, but the Company believes the borrower will pay all contractual amounts owed. Short-term modifications were not material at December 31, 2017.  
   Nonperforming Assets   The level of nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the potential for future credit losses. Nonperforming assets
include nonaccrual loans, restructured loans not performing in accordance with modified terms and not accruing interest, restructured loans that have not met the performance period required to return to accrual status, OREO and other nonperforming
assets owned by the Company. Nonperforming assets are generally either originated by the Company or acquired under FDIC loss sharing agreements that substantially reduce the risk of credit losses to the Company. Interest payments collected from
assets on nonaccrual status are generally applied against the principal balance and not recorded

as income. However, interest income may be recognized for interest payments if the remaining carrying amount of the loan is believed to be collectible.  
 At December 31, 2017, total nonperforming assets were $1.2 billion, compared with $1.6 billion at December 31, 2016 and
$1.5 billion at December 31, 2015. The $403 million (25.1 percent) decrease in nonperforming assets, from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017, was primarily driven by improvements in commercial loans,
residential mortgages and OREO due to continued improving economic conditions, partially offset by an increase in nonperforming commercial real estate loans. Nonperforming covered assets at December 31, 2017 were $27 million, compared with
$32 million at December 31, 2016 and $40 million at December 31, 2015. The ratio of total nonperforming assets to total loans and other real estate was 0.43 percent at December 31, 2017, compared with 0.59 percent
at December 31, 2016, and 0.58 percent at December 31, 2015.    OREO, excluding covered assets, was $141 million at
December 31, 2017, compared with $186 million at December 31, 2016 and $280 million at December 31, 2015, and was related to foreclosed properties that previously secured loan balances. These balances exclude foreclosed GNMA
loans whose repayments are primarily insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.

The following table provides an analysis of OREO,
excluding covered assets, as a percent of their related loan balances, including geographical location detail for residential (residential mortgage, home equity and second mortgage) and commercial (commercial and commercial real estate) loan
balances:      

Table of Contents  

TABLE 16   

Nonperforming Assets (a)   
     
    Changes in Nonperforming Assets       

(a)  
  Throughout this document, nonperforming assets and related ratios do not include accruing loans 90 days or more past due.     

(d)  
  Includes equity investments in entities whose principal assets are other real estate owned.     

(e)  
  Charge-offs exclude actions for certain card products and loan sales that were not classified as nonperforming at the time the  charge-off  occurred.     

Table of Contents  

TABLE 17   

Net Charge-offs as a Percent of Average Loans Outstanding   

Analysis of Loan Net Charge-offs   Total loan net charge-offs were $1.3 billion in 2017, compared with
$1.3 billion in 2016 and $1.2 billion in 2015. The $61 million (4.8 percent) increase in total net charge-offs in 2017, compared with 2016, was primarily due to higher credit card and other retail loan net charge-offs, partially
offset by lower net charge-offs related to residential mortgages and commercial loan recoveries. The ratio of total loan net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.48 percent in 2017, compared with 0.47 percent in 2016 and
0.47 percent in 2015.    Commercial and commercial real estate loan net charge-offs for 2017 were $264 million (0.19 percent of
average loans outstanding), compared with $312 million (0.23 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2016 and $191 million (0.15 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2015. The decrease in net charge-offs in 2017, compared
with 2016, reflected higher commercial loan recoveries in 2017. The increase in net charge-offs in 2016, compared with 2015, reflected higher commercial loan net charge-offs and lower commercial real estate recoveries in 2016.  
 Residential mortgage loan net charge-offs for 2017 were $37 million (0.06 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with
$60 million (0.11 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2016 and $109 million (0.21 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2015. Credit card loan net charge-offs in 2017 were $786 million (3.76 percent of average
loans outstanding), compared with $676 million (3.30 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2016 and $651 million (3.61 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2015. Other retail loan net charge-offs for 2017 were
$243 million (0.44 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with $221 million (0.42 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2016 and $221 million (0.45 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2015. The increase
in total residential mortgage, credit card and other

retail loan net charge-offs in 2017, compared with 2016, reflected higher credit card and other retail loan net charge-offs due to portfolio growth and maturity of vintages within the credit card
portfolio, partially offset by lower residential mortgages net charge-offs due to continued improvement in economic conditions during 2017. The decrease in total residential mortgage, credit card and other retail loan net charge-offs in 2016,
compared with 2015, reflected improvement in economic conditions during 2016.      Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses   The
allowance for credit losses reserves for probable and estimable losses incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, and includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure to the Company
because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. The allowance for credit losses is increased through provisions charged to earnings and reduced by net charge-offs. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance
for incurred losses on a quarterly basis. The evaluation of each element and the overall allowance is based on a continuing assessment of problem loans, recent loss experience and other factors, including external factors such as regulatory guidance
and economic conditions. Because business processes and credit risks associated with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments,
which is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Both the allowance for loan losses and the liability for unfunded credit commitments are included in the Company s analysis of credit losses and reported reserve ratios.
   At December 31, 2017, the allowance for credit losses was $4.4 billion (1.58 percent of
 period-end  loans), compared with an allowance of $4.4 billion (1.59 percent of  period-end  loans) at

Table of Contents  

December 31, 2016. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming loans was 438 percent at December 31, 2017, compared with 318 percent at December 31,
2016. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to annual loan net charge-offs at December 31, 2017, was 332 percent, compared with 343 percent at December 31, 2016, reflecting higher total net charge-offs during 2017.
Management determined the allowance for credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2017.    The allowance recorded for loans in the
commercial lending segment is based on reviews of individual credit relationships and considers the migration analysis of commercial lending segment loans and actual loss experience. For each loan type, this historical loss experience is adjusted as
necessary to consider any relevant changes in portfolio composition, lending policies, underwriting standards, risk management practices or economic conditions. The results of the analysis are evaluated quarterly to confirm the selected loss
experience is appropriate for each commercial loan type. The allowance recorded for impaired loans greater than $5 million in the commercial lending segment is based on an individual loan analysis utilizing expected cash flows discounted using
the original effective interest rate, the observable market price of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral, less selling costs, for collateral-dependent loans, rather than the migration analysis. The allowance recorded for all other
commercial lending segment loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics of the portfolio, delinquency status, bankruptcy experience, portfolio growth and historical losses, adjusted
for current trends. The allowance established for commercial lending segment loans was $2.2 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $2.3 billion at December 31, 2016, reflecting improved credit quality in the energy
portfolio.    The allowance recorded for TDR loans and purchased impaired loans in the consumer lending segment is determined on a homogenous pool
basis utilizing expected cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate of the pool, or the prior quarter effective rate, respectively. The allowance for collateral-dependent loans in the consumer lending segment is determined
based on the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. The allowance recorded for all other consumer lending segment loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics of the
portfolio, bankruptcy experience, delinquency status, refreshed LTV ratios when possible, portfolio growth and historical losses, adjusted for current trends. Credit card and other retail loans 90 days or more past due are generally not placed
on nonaccrual status because of the relatively short period of time to  charge-off  and, therefore, are excluded from nonperforming loans and measures that include nonperforming loans as part of the calculation.
   When evaluating the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses for any loans and lines in a junior lien position, the Company considers
the delinquency and modification status of

the first lien. At December 31, 2017, the Company serviced the first lien on 42 percent of the home equity loans and lines in a junior lien position. The Company also considers
information received from its primary regulator on the status of the first liens that are serviced by other large servicers in the industry and the status of first lien mortgage accounts reported on customer credit bureau files. Regardless of
whether or not the Company services the first lien, an assessment is made of economic conditions, problem loans, recent loss experience and other factors in determining the allowance for credit losses. Based on the available information, the Company
estimated $289 million or 1.8 percent of its total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2017, represented  non-delinquent  junior liens where the first lien was delinquent or modified.  
 The Company uses historical loss experience on the loans and lines in a junior lien position where the first lien is serviced by the Company, or can
be identified in credit bureau data, to establish loss estimates for junior lien loans and lines the Company services that are current, but the first lien is delinquent or modified. Historically, the number of junior lien defaults has been a small
percentage of the total portfolio (approximately 1 percent annually), while the long-term average loss rate on loans that default has been approximately 90 percent. In addition, the Company obtains updated credit scores on its home equity
portfolio each quarter, and in some cases more frequently, and uses this information to qualitatively supplement its loss estimation methods. Credit score distributions for the portfolio are monitored monthly and any changes in the distribution are
one of the factors considered in assessing the Company s loss estimates. In its evaluation of the allowance for credit losses, the Company also considers the increased risk of loss associated with home equity lines that are contractually
scheduled to convert from a revolving status to a fully amortizing payment and with residential lines and loans that have a balloon payoff provision.  
 The allowance established for consumer lending segment loans was $2.2 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $2.1 billion at
December 31, 2016. The $122 million (5.9 percent) increase in the allowance for consumer lending segment loans at December 31, 2017, compared with December 31, 2016, reflected overall portfolio growth, along with the maturing of
vintages within the credit card portfolio and exposures related to 2017 weather events, partially offset by continued improvement in housing market conditions.  
 The allowance for the covered loan segment is evaluated each quarter in a manner similar to that described for
 non-covered  loans, and represents any decreases in expected cash flows on those loans after the acquisition date. The provision for credit losses for covered loans considers the indemnification provided by the
FDIC. The allowance established for covered loans was $31 million at December 31, 2017, compared with $34 million at December 31, 2016, reflecting expected credit losses in excess of initial fair value adjustments.

Table of Contents  

TABLE 18   

Summary of Allowance for Credit Losses  

(a)  
  Relates to covered loan charge-offs and recoveries not reimbursable by the FDIC.         

(b)  
  Includes net changes in credit losses to be reimbursed by the FDIC and reductions in the allowance for covered loans where the reversal of a previously recorded allowance was offset by an associated decrease in the
indemnification asset, and the impact of any loan sales.         

Table of Contents  

TABLE 19   

Elements of the Allowance for Credit Losses  

In addition, the evaluation of the appropriate allowance for credit losses on purchased  non-impaired  loans acquired after January 1, 2009, in the various loan segments considers credit discounts recorded as a part of the initial determination of the fair value of the loans. For these loans, no
allowance for credit losses is recorded at the purchase date. Credit discounts representing the principal losses expected over the life of the loans are a component of the initial fair value. Subsequent to the purchase date, the methods utilized to
estimate the required allowance for credit losses for these loans is similar to originated loans; however, the Company records a provision for credit losses only when the required allowance, net of any expected reimbursement under any loss sharing
agreements with the FDIC, exceeds any remaining credit discounts.    The evaluation of the appropriate allowance for credit losses for purchased
impaired loans in the various loan segments considers the expected cash flows to be collected from the borrower. These loans are initially recorded at fair value and, therefore, no allowance for credit losses is recorded at the purchase date.  
 Subsequent to the purchase date, the expected cash flows of purchased loans are subject to evaluation. Decreases in expected cash flows are recognized
by recording an allowance for credit losses with the related provision for credit losses reduced for the amount reimbursable by the FDIC, where applicable. If the expected cash flows on the purchased loans increase such that a previously recorded
impairment allowance can be reversed, the Company records a reduction in the allowance with a related reduction in losses reimbursable by the FDIC, where applicable. Increases in expected cash flows of purchased loans, when there are no reversals of
previous impairment allowances, are recognized over the remaining life of the loans and resulting decreases in expected cash flows of the FDIC indemnification

assets are amortized over the shorter of the remaining contractual term of the indemnification agreements or the remaining life of the loans. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, for more information.    The Company s methodology for determining the appropriate allowance for credit losses for all
the loan segments also considers the imprecision inherent in the methodologies used. As a result, in addition to the amounts determined under the methodologies described above, management also considers the potential impact of other qualitative
factors which include, but are not limited to, economic factors; geographic and other concentration risks; delinquency and nonaccrual trends; current business conditions; changes in lending policy, underwriting standards and other relevant business
practices; results of internal review; and the regulatory environment. The consideration of these items results in adjustments to allowance amounts included in the Company s allowance for credit losses for each of the above loan segments. Table
19 shows the amount of the allowance for credit losses by loan class and underlying portfolio category.    Although the Company determines the
amount of each element of the allowance separately and considers this process to be an important credit management tool, the entire allowance for credit losses is available for the entire loan portfolio. The actual amount of losses incurred can vary
significantly from the estimated amounts.     Residual Value Risk Management  The Company manages its risk to changes in the residual value of leased assets
through disciplined residual valuation setting at the inception of a lease, diversification of its leased assets, regular residual asset valuation reviews and monitoring of residual value gains or losses upon the disposition of assets. Lease
originations are subject to the same well-defined underwriting standards referred to in the  Credit Risk Management  section which includes an evaluation of the residual

Table of Contents  

value risk. Retail lease residual value risk is mitigated further by effective   end-of-term   marketing of  off-lease  vehicles.    Included in the retail leasing portfolio was approximately $5.9 billion of retail
leasing residuals at December 31, 2017, compared with $4.9 billion at December 31, 2016. The increase reflected overall growth in the retail leasing portfolio during 2017. The Company monitors concentrations of leases by manufacturer
and vehicle  make and model.  As of December 31, 2017, vehicle lease residuals related to sport utility vehicles were 46.6 percent of the portfolio, while auto and truck classes represented approximately 25.2 percent and
18.0 percent of the portfolio, respectively. At  year-end  2017, the largest vehicle type represented 14.1 percent of the aggregate residual value of the vehicles in the portfolio. This risk is
generally mitigated by collateral, as well as residual value guarantees provided by the manufacturer in certain circumstances. At December 31, 2017, the weighted-average origination term of the portfolio was 40 months, unchanged from
December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2017, the commercial leasing portfolio had $510 million of residuals, compared with $468 million at December 31, 2016. At  year-end  2017, lease
residuals related to business and office equipment represented 32.2 percent of the total residual portfolio, while trucks and other transportation equipment represented 29.1 percent and aircraft represented 11.3 percent.  
  Operational Risk Management  Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems, or from external
events, including the risk of loss resulting from fraud, litigation and breaches in data security. The Company operates in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number
of transactions. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities, and the management of this risk is important to the achievement of the Company s objectives. Business lines have direct and primary responsibility and accountability for
identifying, controlling, and monitoring operational risks embedded in their business activities. The Company maintains a system of controls with the objective of providing proper transaction authorization and execution, proper system operations,
proper oversight of third parties with whom it does business, safeguarding of assets from misuse or theft, and ensuring the reliability and security of financial and other data.  
 Business continuation and disaster recovery planning is also critical to effectively managing operational risks. Each business unit of the Company is
required to develop, maintain and test these plans at least annually to ensure that recovery activities, if needed, can support mission critical functions, including technology, networks and data centers supporting customer applications and business
operations.    While the Company believes it has designed effective processes to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute assurance that
business disruption or operational losses would not occur from an external event or internal control breakdown. On an ongoing basis, management makes process changes and investments to enhance its systems of internal controls and business continuity
and disaster recovery plans.  
 
  In the past, the Company has experienced attack attempts on its computer systems, including various   denial-of-service   attacks on customer-facing websites. The Company has not experienced any material losses relating to these attempts, as a result of its controls, processes
and systems to protect its networks, computers, software and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access. However, attack attempts on the Company s computer systems are increasing and the Company continues to develop and enhance its
controls and processes to protect against these attempts.     Compliance Risk Management  The Company may suffer legal or regulatory sanctions, material
financial loss, or damage to its reputation through failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, standards of good practice, and codes of conduct, including those related to compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering requirements,
sanctions compliance requirements as administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, consumer protection and other requirements. The Company has controls and processes in place for the assessment, identification, monitoring, management and
reporting of compliance risks and issues.    The significant increase in regulation and regulatory oversight initiatives over the past several years
has substantially increased the importance of the Company s compliance risk management personnel and activities. For example, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ) has authority to prescribe rules, or issue orders or
guidelines pursuant to any federal consumer financial law. The CFPB regulates and examines the Company, its bank and other subsidiaries with respect to matters that relate to these laws and consumer financial services and products. The CFPB s
rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority increases enforcement risk in this area including the potential for fines and penalties. Refer to  Supervision and Regulation  in the Company s Annual Report on Form  10-K  for further discussion of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, and the substantial changes to that regulation.  
  Interest Rate Risk Management  In the banking industry, changes in interest rates are a significant risk that can impact earnings, market valuations and the
safety and soundness of an entity. To manage the impact on net interest income and the market value of assets and liabilities, the Company manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through asset and liability management activities within
guidelines established by its Asset Liability Committee ( ALCO ) and approved by the Board of Directors. The ALCO has the responsibility for approving and ensuring compliance with the ALCO management policies, including interest rate risk
exposure. The Company uses net interest income simulation analysis and market value of equity modeling for measuring and analyzing consolidated interest rate risk. The Company has established policy limits within which it manages the overall
interest rate risk profile, and at December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company was within those limits.  

Table of Contents  

Net Interest Income Simulation Analysis   One of the primary tools used to measure interest rate risk and the
effect of interest rate changes on net interest income is simulation analysis. The monthly analysis incorporates substantially all of the Company s assets and liabilities and  off-balance  sheet
instruments, together with forecasted changes in the balance sheet and assumptions that reflect the current interest rate environment. Through this simulation, management estimates the impact on net interest income of a 200 basis point
( bps ) upward or downward gradual change of market interest rates over a  one-year  period. The simulation also estimates the effect of immediate and sustained parallel shifts in the yield curve of
50 bps as well as the effect of immediate and sustained flattening or steepening of the yield curve. This simulation includes assumptions about how the balance sheet is likely to be affected by changes in loan and deposit growth. Assumptions
are made to project interest rates for new loans and deposits based on historical analysis, management s outlook and  re-pricing  strategies. These assumptions are reviewed and validated on a periodic basis
with sensitivity analysis being provided for key variables of the simulation. The results are reviewed monthly by the ALCO and are used to guide asset/liability management strategies.  
 The Company manages its interest rate risk position by holding assets with desired interest rate risk characteristics on its balance sheet,
implementing certain pricing strategies for loans and deposits and selecting derivatives and various funding and investment portfolio strategies.  
 Table 20 summarizes the projected impact to net interest income over the next 12 months of various potential interest rate changes. The sensitivity of
the projected impact to net interest income over the next 12 months is dependent on balance sheet growth, product mix, deposit behavior, pricing and funding decisions. While the Company utilizes assumptions based on historical information and
expected behaviors, actual outcomes could vary significantly. For example, if deposit outflows are more limited ( stable ) than the assumptions the Company used in preparing Table 20, the projected impact to net interest income would
increase to 1.78 percent in the  Up 50 basis point ( bps )  and 3.95 percent in the  Up 200 bps  scenarios.      Market Value of
Equity Modeling   The Company also manages interest rate sensitivity by utilizing market value of equity modeling, which measures the degree to which the market values of the Company s assets and liabilities and  off-balance  sheet instruments will change given a change in interest rates. The valuation analysis is dependent upon certain key assumptions about the nature of assets and liabilities with  non-contractual  maturities. Management estimates the average life and rate characteristics of asset and liability accounts based upon historical analysis and management s expectation of rate behavior. Retail
and wholesale loan prepayment assumptions are based on several key factors, including but not limited to, age, loan term, product type, seasonality and underlying contractual

rates, as well as macroeconomic factors including unemployment, housing price indices, geography, interest rates and commercial real estate price indices. These factors are updated regularly
based on historical experience and forward market expectations. The balance and pricing assumptions of deposits that have no stated maturity are based on historical performance, the competitive environment, customer behavior, and product mix. These
assumptions are validated on a periodic basis. A sensitivity analysis of key variables of the valuation analysis is provided to the ALCO monthly and is used to guide asset/liability management strategies.  
 Management measures the impact of changes in market interest rates under a number of scenarios, including immediate and sustained parallel shifts, and
flattening or steepening of the yield curve. A 200 bps increase would have resulted in a 3.1 percent decrease in the market value of equity at December 31, 2017, compared with a 1.9 percent decrease at December 31, 2016. A
200 bps decrease, where possible given current rates, would have resulted in a 8.0 percent decrease in the market value of equity at December 31, 2017, compared with an 8.1 percent decrease at December 31, 2016.  
   Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks   To manage the sensitivity of earnings and capital to interest rate, prepayment, credit, price
and foreign currency fluctuations (asset and liability management positions), the Company enters into derivative transactions. The Company uses derivatives for asset and liability management purposes primarily in the following ways:  

To convert fixed-rate debt from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments;        

To convert the cash flows associated with floating-rate debt from floating-rate payments to fixed-rate payments;        

To mitigate changes in value of the Company s unfunded mortgage loan commitments, funded MLHFS and MSRs;        

To mitigate remeasurement volatility of foreign currency denominated balances; and        

To mitigate the volatility of the Company s net investment in foreign operations driven by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.    
 The Company may enter into derivative contracts that are either exchange-traded, centrally cleared through clearinghouses or   over-the-counter.   In addition, the Company enters into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts to support the business requirements of its customers
(customer-related positions). The Company minimizes the market and liquidity risks of customer-related positions by either entering into similar offsetting positions with broker-dealers, or on a portfolio basis by entering into other derivative or  non-derivative  financial instruments that partially or fully offset the exposure from these customer-related positions. The Company does not utilize derivatives for speculative purposes.

Table of Contents  

TABLE 20   

Sensitivity of Net Interest Income  

*  
  Given the level of interest rates, downward rate scenario is not computed.     
    
  The Company does not designate all of the derivatives that it enters into for risk management purposes
as accounting hedges because of the inefficiency of applying the accounting requirements and may instead elect fair value accounting for the related hedged items. In particular, the Company enters into interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward
commitments to buy   to-be-announced   securities ( TBAs ), U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures and options on U.S. Treasury futures to mitigate
fluctuations in the value of its MSRs, but does not designate those derivatives as accounting hedges. The estimated net sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs and the related derivative instruments at
December 31, 2017, to an immediate 25, 50 and 100 bps downward movement in interest rates would be a decrease of approximately $4 million, $15 million and $67 million, respectively. An immediate upward movement in interest
rates at December 31, 2017, of 25, 50 and 100 bps would result in a decrease of approximately $1 million, $7 million and $34 million, in the fair value of the MSRs and related derivative instruments, respectively. Refer to
Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding MSRs.    Additionally, the Company uses forward
commitments to sell TBAs and other commitments to sell residential mortgage loans at specified prices to economically hedge the interest rate risk in its residential mortgage loan production activities. At December 31, 2017, the Company had
$4.4 billion of forward commitments to sell, hedging $2.2 billion of MLHFS and $2.3 billion of unfunded mortgage loan commitments. The forward commitments to sell and the unfunded mortgage loan commitments on loans intended to be sold
are considered derivatives under the accounting guidance related to accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The Company has elected the fair value option for the MLHFS.  
 Derivatives are subject to credit risk associated with counterparties to the contracts. Credit risk associated with derivatives is measured by the
Company based on the probability of counterparty default. The Company manages the credit risk of its derivative positions by diversifying its positions among various counterparties, by entering into master netting arrangements, and, where possible,
by requiring collateral arrangements. The Company may also transfer counterparty credit risk related to interest rate swaps to third parties through the use of risk participation agreements. In addition, certain interest rate swaps, interest rate
forwards and credit contracts are required to be centrally cleared through clearinghouses to further mitigate counterparty credit risk.    For
additional information on derivatives and hedging activities, refer to Notes 19 and 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Market Risk Management  In addition to interest rate risk, the Company is exposed to other forms of market
risk, principally related to trading activities which support customers  strategies to manage their own foreign currency, interest rate risk and funding activities. For purposes of its internal capital adequacy assessment process, the Company
considers risk arising from its trading activities employing methodologies consistent with the requirements of regulatory rules for market risk. The Company s Market Risk Committee ( MRC ), within the framework of the ALCO, oversees
market risk management. The MRC monitors and reviews the Company s trading positions and establishes policies for market risk management, including exposure limits for each portfolio. The Company uses a VaR approach to measure general market
risk. Theoretically, VaR represents the statistical risk of loss the Company has to adverse market movements over a  one-day  time horizon. The Company uses the Historical Simulation method to calculate VaR for
its trading businesses measured at the ninety-ninth percentile using a  one-year  look-back period for distributions derived from past market data. The market factors used in the calculations include those
pertinent to market risks inherent in the underlying trading portfolios, principally those that affect the Company s corporate bond trading business, foreign currency transaction business, client derivatives business, loan trading business and
municipal securities business. On average, the Company expects the  one-day  VaR to be exceeded by actual losses two to three times per year for its trading businesses. The Company monitors the effectiveness of
its risk programs by back-testing the performance of its VaR models, regularly updating the historical data used by the VaR models and stress testing. If the Company were to experience market losses in excess of the estimated VaR more often than
expected, the VaR models and associated assumptions would be analyzed and adjusted.    The average, high, low and  period-end   one-day  VaR amounts for the Company s trading positions were as follows:      
   The Company did not experience any actual trading losses for its combined trading businesses that exceeded VaR during
2017 and 2016. The Company stress tests its market risk measurements to provide management with perspectives on market events that may not be captured by its VaR models,

Table of Contents  

including worst case historical market movement combinations that have not necessarily occurred on the same date.  
 The Company calculates Stressed VaR using the same underlying methodology and model as VaR, except that a historical continuous  one-year  look-back period is utilized that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the Company s trading portfolio. The period selected by the Company includes the significant market
volatility of the last four months of 2008.    The average, high, low and  period-end 
 one-day  Stressed VaR amounts for the Company s trading positions were as follows:      
   Valuations of positions in the client derivatives and foreign currency transaction businesses are based on discounted
cash flow or other valuation techniques using market-based assumptions. These valuations are compared to third party quotes or other market prices to determine if there are significant variances. Significant variances are approved by the
Company s market risk management department. Valuation of positions in the corporate bond trading, loan trading and municipal securities businesses are based on trader marks. These trader marks are evaluated against third party prices, with
significant variances approved by the Company s risk management department.    The Company also measures the market risk of its hedging
activities related to residential MLHFS and MSRs using the Historical Simulation method. The VaRs are measured at the ninety-ninth percentile and employ factors pertinent to the market risks inherent in the valuation of the assets and hedges. The
Company monitors the effectiveness of the models through back-testing, updating the data and regular validations. A three-year look-back period is used to obtain past market data for the models.  
 The average, high and low VaR amounts for the residential MLHFS and related hedges and the MSRs and related hedges were as follows:  

Liquidity Risk Management  The Company s liquidity risk management process is designed to identify, measure,
and manage the Company s funding and liquidity risk to meet its daily funding needs and to address expected and unexpected changes in its funding requirements. The Company engages in various activities to manage its liquidity risk. These
activities include diversifying its funding sources, stress testing, and holding readily-marketable assets which can be used as a source of liquidity if needed. In addition, the Company s profitable operations, sound credit quality and strong
capital position have enabled it to develop a large and reliable base of core deposit funding within its market areas and in domestic and global capital markets.  
 The Company s Board of Directors approves the Company s liquidity policy. The Risk Management Committee of the Company s Board of
Directors oversees the Company s liquidity risk management process and approves the contingency funding plan. The ALCO reviews the Company s liquidity policy and limits, and regularly assesses the Company s ability to meet funding
requirements arising from adverse company-specific or market events.    The Company s liquidity policy requires it to maintain diversified
wholesale funding sources to avoid maturity, entity and market concentrations. The Company operates a Cayman Islands branch for issuing Eurodollar time deposits. In addition, the Company has relationships with dealers to issue national market retail
and institutional savings certificates and short-term and medium-term notes. The Company also maintains a significant correspondent banking network and relationships. Accordingly, the Company has access to national federal funds, funding through
repurchase agreements and sources of stable certificates of deposit and commercial paper.    The Company regularly projects its funding needs under
various stress scenarios and maintains a contingency funding plan consistent with the Company s access to diversified sources of contingent funding. The Company maintains a substantial level of total available liquidity in the form of  on-balance  sheet and  off-balance  sheet funding sources. These liquidity sources include cash at the Federal Reserve Bank and certain European central banks, unencumbered
liquid assets, and capacity to borrow at the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank s Discount Window. Unencumbered liquid assets in the Company s
  available-for-sale   and   held-to-maturity   investment portfolios provide asset liquidity
through the Company s ability to sell the securities or pledge and borrow against them. At December 31, 2017, the fair value of unencumbered   available-for-sale  
and   held-to-maturity   investment securities totaled $100.3 billion, compared with $100.6 billion at December 31, 2016. Refer to Table 13 and  Balance
Sheet Analysis  for further information on investment securities maturities and trends. Asset liquidity is further enhanced by the Company s practice of pledging loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and Federal
Reserve Bank. At December 31, 2017, the Company could have borrowed an additional $87.7 billion from the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank based on collateral available for additional borrowings.

Table of Contents  

Moody s 

Standard   Poor s 

Fitch 

Dominion Bond Rating Service 

U.S. Bancorp   

Long-term issuer rating  

A1 

A+ 

AA- 

AA 

Short-term issuer rating  

A-1  

F1+ 

R-1 (middle)  

Senior unsecured debt  

A1 

A+ 

AA- 

AA 

Subordinated debt  

A1 

A- 

A+ 

AA (low) 

Junior subordinated debt  

A2 

BBB 

AA (low) 

Preferred stock  

A3 

BBB 

BBB 

A 

Commercial paper  

P-1  

F1+ 

U.S. Bank National Association   

Long-term issuer rating  

A1 

AA- 

AA- 

Short-term issuer rating  

P-1  

A-1+  

F1+ 

R-1  (high) 

Long-term deposits  

Aa1 

AA 

AA(high) 

Short-term deposits  

P-1  

F1+ 

Senior unsecured debt  

A1 

AA- 

AA- 

AA(high) 

Subordinated debt  

A1 

A 

A+ 

AA 

Commercial paper  

P-1  

A-1+  

F1+ 

Counterparty risk assessment  

Aa2(cr)/P-1(cr)  

The Company s diversified deposit base provides a sizeable source of relatively stable and  low-cost  funding, while reducing the Company s reliance on the wholesale markets. Total deposits were $347.2 billion at December 31, 2017, compared with $334.6 billion at December 31, 2016.
Refer to Table 14 and  Balance Sheet Analysis  for further information on the Company s deposits.    Additional funding is provided
by long-term debt and short-term borrowings. Long-term debt was $32.3 billion at December 31, 2017, and is an important funding source because of its multi-year borrowing structure. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on the terms and maturities of the Company s long-term debt issuances and  Balance Sheet Analysis  for discussion on long-term debt trends. Short-term borrowings were $16.7 billion at December 31,
2017, and supplement the Company s other funding sources. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and  Balance Sheet Analysis  for information on the terms and trends of the Company s short-term
borrowings.    The Company s ability to raise negotiated funding at competitive prices is influenced by rating agencies  views of the
Company s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Table 21 details the rating agencies  most recent assessments.    In addition
to assessing liquidity risk on a consolidated basis, the Company monitors the parent company s liquidity. The parent company s routine funding requirements consist primarily of operating expenses, dividends paid to shareholders, debt
service, repurchases of common stock and funds used for acquisitions. The parent company obtains funding to meet its obligations from dividends collected from its subsidiaries and the issuance of debt and capital securities. The Company establishes
limits for the minimal number of months into the future where the parent company can meet existing and forecasted obligations with cash and securities held that can be readily monetized. The

Company measures and manages this limit in both normal and adverse conditions. The Company maintains sufficient funding to meet expected capital and debt service obligations for 24 months without
the support of dividends from subsidiaries and assuming access to the wholesale markets is maintained. The Company maintains sufficient liquidity to meet expected capital and debt service obligations for 12 months under adverse conditions without
the support of dividends from subsidiaries or access to the wholesale markets. The parent company is currently well in excess of required liquidity minimums.  
 Under United States Securities and Exchange Commission rules, the parent company is classified as a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which
allows it to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.  Well-known seasoned issuers  generally include those companies with outstanding common securities with a market value of at least
$700 million held by  non-affiliated  parties or those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in aggregate principal amount of  non-convertible 
securities, other than common equity, in the last three years. However, the parent company s ability to issue debt and other securities under a registration statement filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under these
rules is limited by the debt issuance authority granted by the Company s Board of Directors and/or the ALCO policy.    At December 31,
2017, parent company long-term debt outstanding was $15.8 billion, compared with $13.0 billion at December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to the issuance of $3.9 billion of medium-term notes, partially offset by
$1.3 billion of medium-term note repayments. As of December 31, 2017, there was $1.5 billion of parent company debt scheduled to mature in 2018. Future debt maturities may be met through medium-term note and capital security issuances
and dividends from subsidiaries, as well as from parent company cash and cash equivalents.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 22   

Contractual Obligations  

(a)  
  Unrecognized tax positions of $287 million at December 31, 2017, are excluded as the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority.

(b)  
  Includes obligations under capital leases.     

(c)  
  Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded  non-qualified  pension plans.     

(d)  
  Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations.     

(e)  
  Primarily includes purchase obligations for goods and services covered by noncancellable contracts including cancellation fees.     
    
  Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary bank are subject to regulatory review and statutory
limitations and, in some instances, regulatory approval. In general, dividends to the parent company from its banking subsidiary are limited by rules which compare dividends to net income for regulatorily-defined periods. For further information,
see Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    The Company is subject to a regulatory Liquidity Coverage Ratio
( LCR ) requirement which requires banks to maintain an adequate level of unencumbered high quality liquid assets to meet estimated liquidity needs over a  30-day  stressed period. At December 31,
2017, the Company was compliant with this requirement.      European Exposures   The Company provides merchant processing and corporate trust services in
Europe either directly or through banking affiliations in Europe. Operating cash for these businesses is deposited on a short-term basis typically with certain European central banks. For deposits placed at other European banks, exposure is
mitigated by the Company placing deposits at multiple banks and managing the amounts on deposit at any bank based on institution-specific deposit limits. At December 31, 2017, the Company had an aggregate amount on deposit with European banks
of approximately $10.7 billion, predominately with the Central Bank of Ireland and Bank of England.    In addition, the Company provides
financing to domestic multinational corporations that generate revenue from customers in European countries, transacts with various European banks as counterparties to certain derivative-related activities, and through a subsidiary, manages money
market funds that hold certain investments in European sovereign debt. Any deterioration in economic conditions in Europe is unlikely to have a significant effect on the Company related to these activities.  
    Off-Balance  Sheet Arrangements    Off-balance  sheet arrangements include any
contractual arrangements to which an unconsolidated entity is a party, under which the Company has

an obligation to provide credit or liquidity enhancements or market risk support.  Off-balance  sheet arrangements also include any obligation related to a
variable interest held in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, credit enhancement or market risk support. The Company has not utilized private label asset securitizations as a source of funding.  
 Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Many of the Company s
commitments to extend credit expire without being drawn and, therefore, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future liquidity requirements or the Company s exposure to credit loss. Commitments to extend credit also include
consumer credit lines that are cancelable upon notification to the consumer. Total contractual amounts of commitments to extend credit at December 31, 2017 were $305.2 billion. The Company also issues and confirms various types of letters
of credit, including standby and commercial. Total contractual amounts of letters of credit at December 31, 2017 were $11.3 billion. For more information on the Company s commitments to extend credit and letters of credit, refer to
Note 22 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    The Company s  off-balance  sheet
arrangements with unconsolidated entities primarily consist of private investment funds or partnerships that make equity investments, provide debt financing or support community-based investments in
 tax-advantaged  projects. In addition to providing investment returns, these arrangements in many cases assist the Company in complying with requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act. The investments in
these entities generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits and other tax benefits, such as tax deductions from operating losses of the investments, over specified time periods. The entities in which
the Company invests are generally considered variable interest entities ( VIEs ). The Company s recorded net investment in these entities as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $2.9 billion.

Table of Contents  

The Company also has  non-controlling  financial investments in
private funds and partnerships considered VIEs. The Company s recorded investment in these entities was approximately $30 million at December 31, 2017, and the Company had unfunded commitments to invest an additional $21 million.
For more information on the Company s interests in unconsolidated VIEs, refer to Note 7 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company to customers or other third parties requiring the Company to perform if certain conditions
exist or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of a specified event, such as a scheduled payment to be made under contract. The Company s primary guarantees include commitments from securities lending activities in which indemnifications are
provided to customers; indemnification or  buy-back  provisions related to sales of loans and tax credit investments; and merchant charge-back guarantees through the Company s involvement in providing
merchant processing services. For certain guarantees, the Company may have access to collateral to support the guarantee, or through the exercise of other recourse provisions, be able to offset some or all of any payments made under these
guarantees.    The Company and certain of its subsidiaries, along with other Visa U.S.A. Inc. member banks, have a contingent guarantee obligation
to indemnify Visa Inc. for potential losses arising from antitrust lawsuits challenging the practices of Visa U.S.A. Inc. and MasterCard International. The indemnification by the Company and other Visa U.S.A. Inc. member banks has no maximum amount.
Refer to Note 22 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding guarantees, other commitments, and contingent liabilities, including maximum potential future payments and current carrying amounts.  
  Capital Management  The Company is committed to managing capital to maintain strong protection for depositors and creditors and for maximum shareholder benefit.
The Company continually assesses its business risks and capital position. The Company also manages its capital to exceed regulatory capital requirements for banking organizations. To achieve its capital goals, the Company employs a variety of
capital management tools, including dividends, common share repurchases, and the issuance of subordinated debt,  non-cumulative  perpetual preferred stock, common stock and other capital instruments.  
 On September 19, 2017, the Company announced its Board of Directors had approved a 7.1 percent increase in the Company s dividend rate
per common share, from $0.28 per quarter to $0.30 per quarter.

The Company repurchased approximately 50 million shares of its common stock in 2017, compared with
approximately 61 million shares in 2016. The average price paid for the shares repurchased in 2017 was $52.89 per share, compared with $42.63 per share in 2016. As of December 31, 2017, the approximate dollar value of shares that may yet
be purchased by the Company under the current share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors was $1.3 billion. For a more complete analysis of activities impacting shareholders  equity and capital management programs, refer to
Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    Total U.S. Bancorp shareholders  equity was $49.0 billion at
December 31, 2017, compared with $47.3 billion at December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily the result of corporate earnings, a preferred stock issuance and changes in unrealized gains and losses on
  available-for-sale   investment securities included in other comprehensive income (loss). This increase was partially offset by common share repurchases, dividends and the
redemption of $1.1 billion of preferred stock.    Beginning January 1, 2014, the regulatory capital requirements effective for the Company
follow Basel III, subject to certain transition provisions from Basel I over the following four years to full implementation by January 1, 2018. Basel III includes two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets: a general
standardized approach and more risk-sensitive advanced approaches, with the Company s capital adequacy being evaluated against the methodology that is most restrictive. Under Basel III, banking regulators define minimum capital requirements for
banks and financial services holding companies. These requirements are expressed in the form of a minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio, tier 1 capital ratio, total risk-based capital ratio, and tier 1 leverage ratio. The minimum
required level for these ratios at December 31, 2017, was 5.75 percent, 7.25 percent, 9.25 percent, and 4.0 percent, respectively. The Company targets its regulatory capital levels, at both the bank and bank holding company
level, to exceed the  well-capitalized  threshold for these ratios. At December 31, 2017, the minimum  well-capitalized  threshold for the common equity tier 1 capital ratio, tier 1 capital ratio, total risk-based capital
ratio, and tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.5 percent, 8.0 percent, 10.0 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively. The most recent notification from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency categorized the Company s bank
subsidiary as  well-capitalized  under the FDIC Improvement Act prompt corrective action provisions that are applicable to all banks. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the
risk-based category of its covered subsidiary bank.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 23   

Regulatory Capital Ratios  
     
    Bank Regulatory Capital
Requirements        

As an approved mortgage seller and servicer, U.S. Bank National Association, through its mortgage
banking division, is required to maintain various levels of shareholder s equity, as specified by various agencies, including the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2017, U.S. Bank National Association met these requirements.

Table 23 provides a summary of statutory regulatory capital ratios in effect for the Company at
December 31, 2017 and 2016.    Effective January 1, 2018, the Company will be subject to a regulatory Supplementary Leverage Ratio
( SLR ) requirement for banks calculating capital adequacy using advanced approaches under Basel III. The SLR is defined as tier 1 capital divided by total leverage exposure, which includes both
 on-  and  off-balance  sheet exposures. At December 31, 2017, the Company s SLR exceeded the applicable minimum SLR requirement.

Table of Contents  

The Company believes certain capital ratios in addition to statutory regulatory capital ratios are
useful in evaluating its capital adequacy. The Company s tangible common equity, as a percent of tangible assets and as a percent of risk-weighted assets calculated under the transitional standardized approach, was 7.6 percent and
9.4 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2017, compared with 7.5 percent and 9.2 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2016. The Company s common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio using the
Basel III standardized approach as if fully implemented was 9.1 percent at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The Company s common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio using the Basel III advanced approaches as
if fully implemented was 11.6 percent at December 31, 2017, compared with 11.7 percent at December 31, 2016.     Fourth Quarter Summary   
 The Company reported net income attributable to U.S. Bancorp of $1.7 billion for the fourth quarter of 2017, or $0.97 per diluted common share, compared with
$1.5 billion, or $0.82 per diluted common share, for the fourth quarter of 2016. Return on average

assets and return on average common equity were 1.46 percent and 14.7 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with 1.32 percent and 13.1 percent,
respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2016. The results for the fourth quarter of 2017 included the $910 million benefit related to the estimated impact of tax reform on the Company s tax related assets and liabilities, partially offset
by the $608 million increase in reserves for regulatory and legal matters, as well as the $152 million, net of tax, of expenses related to the charitable contribution to the U.S. Bank Foundation and the special bonus awarded to certain
eligible employees.    Total net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2017, was $203 million (3.7 percent) higher than the fourth quarter of 2016,
reflecting a 6.4 percent increase in net interest income and a 0.4 percent increase in noninterest income. The increase in net interest income from the fourth quarter of 2016 was mainly a result of the impact of rising interest rates and
loan growth. The noninterest income increase was principally due to higher payment services revenue, trust and investment management fees and deposit service charges, offset by a decrease in mortgage banking revenue and lower equity investment
income.  

TABLE 24   

Fourth Quarter Results  

(a)  
  Utilizes a tax rate of 35 percent, for the periods presented, for those assets and liabilities whose income or expense is not included for federal income tax purposes.     

(b)  
  See  Non-GAAP  Financial Measures beginning on page 66.     

Table of Contents  

Noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of 2017 was $935 million (31.1 percent) higher than the
fourth quarter of 2016, reflecting business growth, incremental costs related to compliance programs and investments in the business. Compensation expense increased primarily due to the impact of hiring to support business growth and compliance
programs, merit increases and higher variable compensation related to revenue growth. Marketing expense increased due to higher charitable contributions, while other expense was higher due to an increase in reserves related to regulatory and legal
matters.    Fourth quarter 2017 net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was $3.2 billion, compared with $3.0 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2016. The $193 million (6.4 percent) increase was principally driven by the impact of rising interest rates and loan growth. Average earning assets were $11.5 billion (2.9 percent) higher in the fourth quarter
of 2017, compared with the fourth quarter of 2016, reflecting increases of $7.1 billion (2.6 percent) in average loans, $2.9 billion (2.6 percent) in average investment securities and $2.7 billion (19.4 percent) in average other
earning assets. The net interest margin, on a taxable-equivalent basis, in the fourth quarter of 2017 was 3.08 percent, compared with 2.98 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase in net interest margin was primarily due to
higher interest rates and changes in the loan portfolio mix, partially offset by higher funding costs and higher cash balances.    Noninterest
income in the fourth quarter of 2017 was $2.4 billion, representing an increase of $10 million (0.4 percent) over the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase reflected higher payment services revenue, trust and investment management fees, and
deposit service charges, partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue and other noninterest income. Payment services revenue was higher due to an increase in corporate payments products revenue of $18 million (10.5 percent) and an
increase in credit and debit card revenue of $17 million (5.4 percent), both driven by higher sales volumes. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in merchant processing services revenue of $4 million (1.0 percent) mainly due
to the Company exiting certain joint ventures in the second quarter of 2017. Trust and investment management fees increased $26 million (7.1 percent) in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the same period of the prior year, principally
due to favorable market conditions, and net asset and account growth. Deposit service charges increased $12 million (6.5 percent) primarily due to higher transaction volumes and account growth. Mortgage banking revenue decreased
$38 million (15.8 percent) primarily due to lower origination and sales volumes from home refinancing activities which were higher in the fourth quarter of 2016 and lower margins on mortgage loan sales. Other income decreased $37 million
(14.7 percent) primarily due to lower equity investment income in the fourth quarter of 2017.    Noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of 2017
was $3.9 billion, compared with $3.0 billion in the same period of 2016, representing an increase of $935 million (31.1 percent). The increase was primarily due to higher compensation, marketing and other expenses, partially offset by
lower

professional services expense. Compensation expense increased $142 million (10.5 percent) over the same period of the prior year, principally due to the impact of hiring to support business
growth and compliance programs, merit increases, higher variable compensation related to business production and a special bonus awarded to eligible employees. Employee benefits expense was higher $43 million (16.5 percent), primarily driven by
increased medical costs. Marketing and business development expense increased $144 million primarily due to a charitable contribution to the U.S. Bank Foundation in the fourth quarter of 2017. Other expense increased $617 million primarily
due to the impact of the increase in reserves related to legal and regulatory matters recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017. Professional services expense decreased $42 million (26.9 percent) in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the
same period of the prior year, primarily due to fewer consulting services as compliance programs near maturity.    The provision for credit losses
for the fourth quarter of 2017 was $335 million, a decrease of $7 million (2.0 percent) from the same period of 2016. The provision for credit losses was $10 million higher than net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2017
and $20 million higher than net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase in the allowance for credit losses during the fourth quarter of 2017 reflected loan portfolio growth, partially offset by improvements in the energy and
residential mortgage portfolios. Net charge-offs were $325 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with $322 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The net  charge-off  ratio was
0.46 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with 0.47 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016.    The provision for income taxes
for the fourth quarter of 2017 reflected the estimated $910 million net tax benefit of the Company revaluing its deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the enactment of federal tax reform legislation, resulting in an effective tax benefit
rate of 28.6 percent for the period. This compares with an effective tax expense rate of 26.9 percent for the fourth quarter of 2016.     Line of Business
Financial Review     The Company s major lines of business are Corporate and Commercial Banking, Consumer and Business Banking, Wealth Management and
Investment Services, Payment Services, and Treasury and Corporate Support. These operating segments are components of the Company about which financial information is prepared and is evaluated regularly by management in deciding how to allocate
resources and assess performance.     Basis for Financial Presentation  Business line results are derived from the Company s business unit profitability
reporting systems by specifically attributing managed balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related income or expense. The allowance for credit losses and related provision expense are allocated to the lines of business
based on the related loan balances managed. Goodwill and other intangible assets are assigned to the lines of business based on the mix of business of

Table of Contents  

an entity acquired by the Company. Within the Company, capital levels are evaluated and managed centrally; however, capital is allocated to the operating segments to support evaluation of
business performance. Business lines are allocated capital on a risk-adjusted basis considering economic and regulatory capital requirements. Generally, the determination of the amount of capital allocated to each business line includes credit and
operational capital allocations following a Basel III regulatory framework. Interest income and expense is determined based on the assets and liabilities managed by the business line. Because funding and asset liability management is a central
function, funds transfer-pricing methodologies are utilized to allocate a cost of funds used or credit for funds provided to all business line assets and liabilities, respectively, using a matched funding concept. Also, each business unit is
allocated the taxable-equivalent benefit of  tax-exempt  products. The residual effect on net interest income of asset/liability management activities is included in Treasury and Corporate Support. Noninterest
income and expenses directly managed by each business line, including fees, service charges, salaries and benefits, and other direct revenues and costs are accounted for within each segment s financial results in a manner similar to the
consolidated financial statements. Occupancy costs are allocated based on utilization of facilities by the lines of business. Generally, operating losses are charged to the line of business when the loss event is realized in a manner similar to a
loan  charge-off.  Noninterest expenses incurred by centrally managed operations or business lines that directly support another business line s operations are charged to the applicable business line based
on its utilization of those services, primarily measured by the volume of customer activities, number of employees or other relevant factors. These allocated expenses are reported as net shared services expense within noninterest expense. Certain
activities that do not directly support the operations of the lines of business or for which the lines of business are not considered financially accountable in evaluating their performance are not charged to the lines of business. The income or
expenses associated with these corporate activities is reported within the Treasury and Corporate Support line of business. Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a standard tax rate with the residual tax expense or benefit to arrive
at the consolidated effective tax rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support.    Designations, assignments and allocations change from time to
time as management systems are enhanced, methods of evaluating performance or product lines change or business segments are realigned to better respond to the Company s diverse customer base. During 2017, certain organization and methodology
changes were made and, accordingly, 2016 results were restated and presented on a comparable basis.     Corporate and Commercial Banking  Corporate and
Commercial Banking offers lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository services, treasury management, capital markets services, international trade services and other financial services to middle market, large corporate,
commercial real

estate, financial institution,  non-profit  and public sector clients. Corporate and Commercial Banking contributed $1.1 billion of the Company s
net income in 2017, or an increase of $277 million (32.7 percent), compared with 2016.    Net revenue increased $182 million
(5.8 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased $184 million (8.2 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to the impact of rising rates on the margin benefit
from deposits and growth in average loan and deposit balances, partially offset by lower rates on loans, reflecting a competitive marketplace.  
 Noninterest expense increased $126 million (8.7 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, reflecting an increase in variable costs allocated to
manage the business, higher compensation expense and the impact of the FDIC insurance surcharge on deposit balances. The increase in compensation expense reflected the impact of increased staffing, merit increases and higher variable compensation.
The provision for credit losses decreased $379 million in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to a favorable change in the reserve allocation and the continued stabilization in credit quality in the energy portfolio.  
  Consumer and Business Banking  Consumer and Business Banking delivers products and services through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales,  on-line  services, direct mail, ATM processing and mobile devices. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking and indirect lending, as well as mortgage banking. Consumer and Business Banking contributed
$1.3 billion of the Company s net income in 2017, or a decrease of $21 million (1.6 percent), compared with 2016.    Net revenue
increased $284 million (3.9 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased $365 million (7.7 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to the impact of rising
rates on the margin benefit from deposits along with growth in average loan and deposit balances, partially offset by lower spread on loans. Noninterest income decreased $81 million (3.2 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, principally driven
by lower mortgage banking revenue due to lower origination and sales volumes from home refinancing activities and lower margins on mortgage loan sales. Partially offsetting the impact of lower mortgage banking revenue was growth in retail leasing
revenue due to stronger   end-of-term   gains on auto leases and higher ATM processing services and treasury management fees.  
 Noninterest expense increased $57 million (1.1 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, principally due to higher compensation and
employee benefits expenses, higher net shared services expense, and the impact of the FDIC insurance surcharge on deposit balances, partially offset by lower mortgage related costs and professional services expense. The provision for credit losses
increased $261 million in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to growth in other retail loans, exposures as a result of 2017 weather events, and higher releases of reserves related to residential mortgages in the prior year as a result of
improvements in the portfolio.  

Table of Contents  

Wealth Management and Investment Services  Wealth Management and Investment Services provides private banking,
financial advisory services, investment management, retail brokerage services, insurance, trust, custody and fund servicing through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate Trust Services, U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Institutional
Trust   Custody and Fund Services. Wealth Management and Investment Services contributed $498 million of the Company s net income in 2017, or an increase of $119 million (31.4 percent), compared with 2016.  
 Net revenue increased $283 million (13.3 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased
$226 million (42.1 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, principally due to the impact of rising rates on the margin benefit from deposits along with higher average loan and deposit balances. Noninterest income increased $57 million (3.6
percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, reflecting favorable market conditions and net asset and account growth.    Noninterest expense increased
$93 million (6.1 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily the result of higher compensation expense, reflecting the impact of higher staffing and merit increases, higher net shared services expense, and higher FDIC insurance surcharges.
    Payment Services  Payment Services includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate, government and purchasing card
services, consumer lines of credit and merchant processing. Payment Services contributed $1.2 billion of the Company s net income in 2017, or a decrease of $135 million (10.3 percent), compared with 2016.  
 Net revenue increased $133 million (2.3 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased
$82 million (3.8 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to higher average loan volumes and rising interest rates, in addition to growth in loan fees. Noninterest income increased $51 million (1.4 percent) in 2017, compared
with 2016, primarily due to higher credit and debit card revenue and corporate payment products revenue, both driven by higher sales. These increases were partially offset by the impact of a gain on the sale of an equity investment during 2016.  
 Noninterest expense increased $162 million (6.0 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, principally due to higher net shared services expense,
driven by implementation costs of capital

investments to support business growth, and higher compensation and employee benefits expenses, reflecting higher staffing to support business investment and compliance programs, and merit
increases. The provision for credit losses increased $213 million (24.5 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, due to an unfavorable change in the reserve allocation due to portfolio growth and higher loss rates, as well as higher net
charge-offs.     Treasury and Corporate Support  Treasury and Corporate Support includes the Company s investment portfolios, funding, capital management,
interest rate risk management, income taxes not allocated to the business lines, including most investments in  tax-advantaged  projects, and the residual aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate
activities that are managed on a consolidated basis. Treasury and Corporate Support recorded net income of $2.1 billion in 2017, compared with $2.0 billion in 2016.  
 Net revenue decreased $133 million (4.3 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016. Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, decreased
$142 million (6.9 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, principally due to the impact of rising rates on the margin benefits on deposits credited to the business lines, partially offset by growth in the investment portfolio. Total noninterest
income increased $9 million (0.9 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due to higher gains on sales of investment securities, partially offset by lower income from equity investments.  
 Noninterest expense increased $831 million (93.7 percent) in 2017, compared with 2016, principally due to the impact of the increase in reserves
related to legal and regulatory matters recorded during 2017, higher charitable contributions to the U.S. Bank Foundation and the 2017 special bonus awarded to certain eligible employees. The provision for credit losses was $32 million lower in
2017, compared with prior year, primarily due to lower net charge-offs.    Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a managerial tax
rate of 36.4 percent with the residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support. Income tax expense decreased $1.0 billion in 2017, compared with 2016, primarily due
to the impact of 2017 tax reform on the Company s tax related assets and liabilities.  

Table of Contents  

TABLE 25   

Line of Business Financial Performance  

*  
  Not meaningful     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Non-GAAP  Financial Measures   
 In addition to capital ratios defined by banking regulators, the Company considers various other measures when evaluating capital utilization and adequacy, including:

Tangible common equity to tangible assets,        

Tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets,        

Common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets estimated for the Basel III fully implemented standardized approach, and        

Common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets estimated for the Basel III fully implemented advanced approaches.    
 These capital measures are viewed by management as useful additional methods of reflecting the level of capital available to withstand unexpected
negative market or economic conditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows investors, analysts and banking regulators to assess the Company s capital position relative to other financial services companies. These measures
differ from currently effective capital ratios defined by banking regulations principally in that the numerator of the currently effective ratios, which are subject to certain transitional provisions, temporarily excludes a portion of unrealized
gains and

losses related to   available-for-sale   securities and retirement plan obligations, and includes a portion of capital
related to intangible assets, other than MSRs. These capital measures are not defined in GAAP, or are not currently effective or defined in federal banking regulations. As a result, these capital measures disclosed by the Company may be considered  non-GAAP  financial measures.    The Company also discloses net interest income and related ratios and analysis on
a taxable-equivalent basis, which may also be considered  non-GAAP  financial measures. The Company believes this presentation to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it provides a
relevant comparison of net interest income arising from taxable and  tax-exempt  sources. In addition, certain performance measures, including the efficiency ratio and net interest margin utilize net interest
income on a taxable-equivalent basis.    There may be limits in the usefulness of these measures to investors. As a result, the Company encourages
readers to consider the consolidated financial statements and other financial information contained in this report in their entirety, and not to rely on any single financial measure.

Table of Contents  

The following table shows the Company s calculation of these  Non-GAAP 
financial measures:      

(1)  
  Includes goodwill related to certain investments in unconsolidated financial institutions per prescribed regulatory requirements beginning March 31, 2014.     

(2)  
  Includes net (gains) losses on cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and other adjustments.     

(4)  
  Includes higher risk-weighting for unfunded loan commitments, investment securities, residential mortgages, MSRs and other adjustments.     

(5)  
  Primarily reflects higher risk-weighting for MSRs.     

(6)  
  Utilizes a tax rate of 35 percent, for the periods presented, for those assets and liabilities whose income or expense is not included for federal income tax purposes.     

Table of Contents  

Accounting Changes     Note 2 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses accounting standards recently issued but not yet required to be adopted and the expected impact of these changes in accounting standards. To the extent the adoption of new accounting standards
materially affects the Company s financial condition or results of operations, the impacts are discussed in the applicable section(s) of the Management s Discussion and Analysis and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Critical Accounting Policies     The accounting and reporting policies of the
Company comply with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and conform to general practices within the banking industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions. The Company s financial position and results of operations can be affected by these estimates and assumptions, which are integral to understanding the Company s financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those
policies management believes are the most important to the portrayal of the Company s financial condition and results, and require management to make estimates that are difficult, subjective or complex. Most accounting policies are not
considered by management to be critical accounting policies. Several factors are considered in determining whether or not a policy is critical in the preparation of financial statements. These factors include, among other things, whether the
estimates are significant to the financial statements, the nature of the estimates, the ability to readily validate the estimates with other information (including third party sources or available prices), sensitivity of the estimates to changes in
economic conditions and whether alternative accounting methods may be utilized under GAAP. Management has discussed the development and the selection of critical accounting policies with the Company s Audit Committee.  
 Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Those policies considered to be
critical accounting policies are described below.     Allowance for Credit Losses  The allowance for credit losses is established to provide for probable and
estimable losses incurred in the Company s credit portfolio. The methods utilized to estimate the allowance for credit losses, key assumptions and quantitative and qualitative information considered by management in determining the appropriate
allowance for credit losses are discussed in the  Credit Risk Management  section.    Management s evaluation of the appropriate
allowance for credit losses is often the most critical of all the accounting estimates for a banking institution. It is an inherently subjective process impacted by many factors as discussed throughout the Management s Discussion and Analysis
section of the Annual Report. Although methodologies utilized to determine each element of the allowance reflect management s assessment of

credit risk as identified through assessments completed of individual credits and of homogenous pools affected by material credit events, degrees of imprecision exist in these measurement tools
due in part to subjective judgments involved and an inherent lag in current conditions and events that affect credit loss reserve estimates. As discussed in the  Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit Losses  section,
management considers the effect of changes in economic conditions, risk management practices, and other factors that contribute to imprecision of loss estimates in determining the allowance for credit losses. If not considered, incurred losses in
the credit portfolio related to imprecision and other subjective factors could have a dramatic adverse impact on the liquidity and financial viability of a banking institution.  
 Given the many subjective factors affecting the credit portfolio, changes in the allowance for credit losses may not directly coincide with changes in
the risk ratings of the credit portfolio reflected in the risk rating process. This is in part due to the timing of the risk rating process in relation to changes in the business cycle, the exposure and mix of loans within risk rating categories,
levels of nonperforming loans and the timing of charge-offs and recoveries. For example, the amount of loans within specific risk ratings may change, providing a leading indicator of changing credit quality, while nonperforming loans and net
charge-offs may be slower to reflect changes. Also, inherent loss rates applicable to risk rated loans, determined through migration analysis and historical loss performance over the estimated business cycle, may not change to the same degree as net
charge-offs. Because risk ratings and inherent loss ratios primarily drive the allowance specifically allocated to commercial lending segment loans, the degree of change in the commercial lending allowance may differ from the level of changes in
nonperforming loans and net charge-offs. Also, management would maintain an appropriate allowance for credit losses by updating aggregate allowance rates to reflect changes in economic uncertainty or business cycle conditions.  
 Some factors considered in determining the appropriate allowance for credit losses are quantifiable while other factors require qualitative judgment.
Management conducts an analysis with respect to the accuracy of risk ratings and the volatility of inherent losses, and utilizes this analysis along with qualitative factors that can affect the precision of credit loss estimates, including economic
conditions, such as changes in unemployment or bankruptcy rates, and concentration risks, such as risks associated with specific industries, collateral valuations, and loans to highly leveraged enterprises, in determining the overall level of the
allowance for credit losses. The Company s determination of the allowance for commercial lending segment loans is sensitive to the assigned credit risk ratings and inherent loss rates at December 31, 2017. In the event that 10 percent
of period ending loan balances (including unfunded commitments) within each risk category of this segment of the loan portfolio experienced downgrades of two risk categories, the allowance for credit losses would increase by approximately
$234 million at December 31, 2017. The Company  

Table of Contents  

believes the allowance for credit losses appropriately considers the imprecision in estimating credit losses based on credit risk ratings and inherent loss rates but actual losses may differ from
those estimates. In the event that inherent loss or estimated loss rates for commercial lending segment loans increased by 10 percent, the allowance for credit losses would increase by approximately $170 million at December 31, 2017.
The Company s determination of the allowance for consumer lending segment loans is sensitive to changes in estimated loss rates and estimated impairments on restructured loans. In the event that estimated losses for this segment of the loan
portfolio increased by 10 percent, the allowance for credit losses would increase by approximately $174 million at December 31, 2017. Because several quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in determining the allowance for
credit losses, these sensitivity analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature and extent of future changes in the allowance for credit losses. They are intended to provide insights into the impact of adverse changes in risk rating and inherent
losses and do not imply any expectation of future deterioration in the risk rating or loss rates. Given current processes employed by the Company, management believes the risk ratings and inherent loss rates currently assigned are appropriate. It is
possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions that could be significant to the Company s financial statements. Refer to the  Analysis and Determination of the Allowance
for Credit Losses  section for further information.     Fair Value Estimates  A portion of the Company s assets and liabilities are carried at fair
value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with changes in fair value recorded either through earnings or other comprehensive income (loss) in accordance with applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These include all
of the Company s   available-for-sale   investment securities, derivatives and other trading instruments, MSRs and MLHFS. The estimation of fair value also affects
other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the     lower-of-cost-or-fair     value. The
determination of fair value is important for certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other intangible assets, impaired loans, OREO and other repossessed assets.  
 Fair value is generally defined as the exit price at which an asset or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing,
unrelated parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Fair value is based on quoted market prices in an active market, or if market prices are not available, is estimated using models employing techniques such as matrix pricing or
discounting expected cash flows. The significant assumptions used in the models, which include assumptions for interest rates, discount rates, prepayments and credit losses, are independently verified against observable market data where possible.
Where observable market data is not available, the estimate of fair value becomes more subjective and involves a high degree of judgment. In this circumstance, fair value is estimated based on management s judgment regarding the value that
market participants would assign to the asset or liability. This valuation

process takes into consideration factors such as market illiquidity. Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount recorded on the balance sheet for a particular asset or
liability with related impacts to earnings or other comprehensive income (loss).    When available, trading and   available-for-sale   securities are valued based on quoted market prices. However, certain securities are traded less actively and, therefore, quoted market prices may not be available. The determination of
fair value may require benchmarking to similar instruments or performing a discounted cash flow analysis using estimates of future cash flows and prepayment, interest and default rates. For more information on investment securities, refer to
Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the majority of the
Company s derivative positions are valued using valuation techniques that use readily observable market inputs. Certain derivatives, however, must be valued using techniques that include unobservable inputs. For these instruments, the
significant assumptions must be estimated and, therefore, are subject to judgment. Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides a summary of the Company s derivative positions.  
 Refer to Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding estimations of fair value.  
  Purchased Loans and Related Indemnification Assets  In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance effective for the Company beginning
January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and related indemnification assets arising from loss-sharing arrangements with the FDIC are recorded at fair value at date of purchase. The initial valuation of these loans and the related indemnification
assets requires management to make subjective judgments concerning estimates about how the acquired loans will perform in the future using valuation methods including discounted cash flow analysis and independent third party appraisals. Factors that
may significantly affect the initial valuation include, among others, market-based and industry data related to expected changes in interest rates, assumptions related to probability and severity of credit losses, estimated timing of credit losses
including the foreclosure and liquidation of collateral, expected prepayment rates, required or anticipated loan modifications, unfunded loan commitments, the specific terms and provisions of any loss sharing agreements, and specific industry and
market conditions that may impact discount rates and independent third party appraisals.    On an ongoing basis, the accounting for purchased loans
and related indemnification assets follows applicable authoritative accounting guidance for purchased  non-impaired  loans and purchased impaired loans. Refer to Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, refer to the  Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses  section for information on the determination of the required allowance for credit losses, if any,
for these loans.  

Table of Contents  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  MSRs are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold and servicing is retained,
or may be purchased from others. The Company records MSRs at fair value. Because MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices, the Company determines the fair value by estimating the present value of the asset s future
cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment rates, option adjusted spread, and other assumptions validated through comparison to trade information, industry surveys and independent third party valuations. Changes in the fair value of MSRs are
recorded in earnings during the period in which they occur. Risks inherent in the valuation of MSRs include higher than expected prepayment rates and/or delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company utilizes derivatives, including interest rate swaps,
swaptions, forward commitments to buy TBAs, U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures and options on U.S. Treasury futures, to mitigate the valuation risk. Refer to Notes 9 and 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information on the assumptions used in determining the fair value of MSRs and an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative instruments used to mitigate the valuation
risk.     Goodwill and Other Intangibles  The Company records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other
intangibles, at fair value. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject, at a minimum, to annual tests for impairment. In certain situations, interim impairment tests may be required if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than
not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives using straight-line and accelerated methods and are subject to impairment if events or circumstances
indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.    The initial recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets and subsequent
impairment analysis require management to make subjective judgments concerning estimates of how the acquired assets will perform in the future using valuation methods including discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, estimated cash flows may
extend beyond ten years and, by their nature, are difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Events and factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, changes
in revenue growth trends, cost structures, technology, changes in discount rates and specific industry and market conditions. In determining the reasonableness of cash flow estimates, the Company reviews historical performance of the underlying
assets or similar assets in an effort to assess and validate assumptions utilized in its estimates.    In assessing the fair value of reporting
units, the Company considers the stage of the current business cycle and potential changes in market conditions in estimating the timing and extent of future cash flows. Also, management often utilizes other information to validate the
reasonableness of its valuations, including public market comparables, and multiples of recent

mergers and acquisitions of similar businesses. Valuation multiples may be based on revenue,   price-to-earnings   and
tangible capital ratios of comparable public companies and business segments. These multiples may be adjusted to consider competitive differences, including size, operating leverage and other factors. The carrying amount of a reporting unit is
determined based on the amount of equity required for the reporting unit s activities, considering the specific assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. The Company determines the amount of equity for each reporting unit on a risk-adjusted
basis considering economic and regulatory capital requirements, capital markets activity in the Company s Corporate and Commercial Banking segment and includes deductions and limitations related to certain types of assets including MSRs and
purchased credit card relationship intangibles. The Company does not assign corporate assets and liabilities to reporting units that do not relate to the operations of the reporting unit or are not considered in determining the fair value of the
reporting unit. These assets and liabilities primarily relate to the Company s investment securities portfolio and other investments (including direct equity investments, bank-owned life insurance and
 tax-advantaged  investments) and corporate debt and other funding liabilities. In the most recent goodwill impairment test, the portion of the Company s total equity allocated to the Treasury and Corporate
Support operating segment included approximately $2 billion in excess of the economic and regulatory capital requirements of that segment.  
 The Company s annual assessment of potential goodwill impairment was completed during the third quarter of 2017. Based on the results of this
assessment, no goodwill impairment was recognized. The Company continues to monitor goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment indicators throughout the year.  
  Income Taxes  The Company estimates income tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to the various tax jurisdictions in which it operates, including
federal, state and local domestic jurisdictions, and an insignificant amount to foreign jurisdictions. The estimated income tax expense is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Accrued taxes are reported in other assets or other
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and represent the net estimated amount due to or to be received from taxing jurisdictions either currently or deferred to future periods. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets and
liabilities measured for financial reporting purposes versus income tax reporting purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management s judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not. Uncertain tax positions
that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit management believes is more likely than not to be realized
upon settlement. In estimating accrued taxes, the Company assesses the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment considering statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. Because of the complexity
of  

Table of Contents  

tax laws and regulations, interpretation can be difficult and subject to legal judgment given specific facts and circumstances. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any
point in time reach different reasonable conclusions regarding the estimated amounts of accrued taxes.    Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes
occur periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status of examinations being conducted by various taxing authorities, and newly enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance that impacts the relative merits and
risks of tax positions. These changes, when they occur, affect accrued taxes and can be significant to the operating results of the Company. Refer to Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding
income taxes.     Controls and Procedures     Under the supervision and with
the participation of the Company s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the Company has evaluated the

effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in  Rules 13a-15(e)  and
 15d-15(e)  under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )). Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as of the
end of the period covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.    During the most recently
completed fiscal quarter, there was no change made in the Company s internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in  Rules 13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f) 
under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  
 The annual report of the Company s management on internal control over financial reporting is provided on page 72. The attestation report of
Ernst   Young LLP, the Company s independent accountants, regarding the Company s internal control over financial reporting is provided on page 74.

Table of Contents  

Report of Management   
 Responsibility for the financial statements and other information presented throughout this Annual Report rests with the management of U.S. Bancorp. The Company
believes the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and present the substance of transactions based on the circumstances and management s best
estimates and judgment.    In meeting its responsibilities for the reliability of the financial statements, management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting as defined by  Rules 13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f)  under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
Company s system of internal control is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of publicly filed financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.    To test compliance, the Company carries out an extensive audit program. This program includes a review for compliance with written
policies and procedures and a comprehensive review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control. Although control procedures are designed and tested, it must be recognized that there are limits inherent in all systems of
internal control and, therefore, errors and irregularities may nevertheless occur. Also, estimates and judgments are required to assess and balance the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Projection of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
 The Board of Directors of the Company has an Audit Committee composed of directors who are independent of U.S. Bancorp. The Audit Committee meets periodically with
management, the internal auditors and the independent accountants to consider audit results and to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and financial reporting matters.  
 Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. In making this assessment,
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in its Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes the Company
designed and maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017.    The Company s independent accountants,
Ernst   Young LLP, have been engaged to render an independent professional opinion on the financial statements and issue an attestation report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Their opinion on the financial
statements appearing on page 73 and their attestation on internal control over financial reporting appearing on page 74 are based on procedures conducted in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States).  

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp    Opinion on the
Financial Statements    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp (the Company) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the  financial
statements ). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.    We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 22, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  
 Basis for Opinion    These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.    We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to
error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      

We have served as the Company s auditor since 2003.  
 Minneapolis, Minnesota    February 22, 2018  

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp    Opinion on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting    We have audited U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, U.S. Bancorp (the Company) maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the COSO criteria.    We also have audited, in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the  financial statements ) of the Company and our report dated
February 22, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.    Basis for Opinion  
 The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.    Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.    Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting    A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Minneapolis, Minnesota    February 22, 2018

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes Table of Contents   

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp       
 Consolidated Balance Sheet       

(a)  
  Includes only collateral pledged by the Company where counterparties have the right to sell or pledge the collateral.         
 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp       
 Consolidated Statement of Income       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp       
 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp       
 Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp       
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

NOTE 1   

Significant Accounting Policies  

U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) provide a full range of financial services, including lending and depository services through banking offices principally in the Midwest and West regions of the United States. The
Company also engages in credit card, merchant, and ATM processing, mortgage banking, cash management, capital markets, insurance, trust and investment management, brokerage, and leasing activities, principally in domestic markets.  
  Basis of Presentation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and all variable interest entities
( VIEs ) for which the Company has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits of the VIE that
could potentially be significant to the VIE. Consolidation eliminates all significant intercompany accounts and transactions. Certain items in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.  
  Uses of Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual experience could differ from those estimates.  
  Business Segments     Within the Company, financial performance is measured by
major lines of business based on the products and services provided to customers through its distribution channels. The Company has five reportable operating segments:  
  Corporate and Commercial Banking  Corporate and Commercial Banking offers lending, equipment finance and small-ticket leasing, depository services, treasury
management, capital markets services, international trade services and other financial services to middle market, large corporate, commercial real estate, financial institution,  non-profit  and public sector
clients.     Consumer and Business Banking  Consumer and Business Banking delivers products and services through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales,  on-line  services, direct mail, ATM processing and mobile devices. It encompasses community banking, metropolitan banking and indirect lending, as well as mortgage banking.  
  Wealth Management and Investment Services  Wealth Management and Investment Services provides private banking, financial advisory services, investment management,
retail brokerage services, insurance, trust, custody and fund servicing through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate

Trust Services, U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Institutional Trust   Custody and Fund Services.  
  Payment Services  Payment Services includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate, government and purchasing card
services, consumer lines of credit and merchant processing.     Treasury and Corporate Support  Treasury and Corporate Support includes the Company s
investment portfolios, funding, capital management, interest rate risk management, income taxes not allocated to business lines, including most investments in  tax-advantaged  projects, and the residual
aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate activities that are managed on a consolidated basis.     Segment Results  Accounting policies for the lines
of business are the same as those used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements with respect to activities specifically attributable to each business line. However, the preparation of business line results requires management to
allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses and other financial elements to each line of business. For details of these methodologies and segment results, see  Basis for Financial Presentation  and Table 25  Line of Business
Financial Performance  included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Securities     Realized gains or losses on securities are determined on a trade
date basis based on the specific amortized cost of the investments sold.     Trading Securities  Debt and equity securities held for resale are classified as
trading securities and are included in other assets and reported at fair value. Changes in fair value and realized gains or losses are reported in noninterest income.  
    Available-for-sale   Securities  These securities are not trading securities but may
be sold before maturity in response to changes in the Company s interest rate risk profile, funding needs, demand for collateralized deposits by public entities or other reasons.  Available-for-sale 
securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains or losses reported within other comprehensive income (loss). Declines in fair value for credit-related other-than-temporary impairment, if any, are reported in noninterest income.  
    Held-to-maturity   Securities  Debt securities for which the Company has the
positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported at historical cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Declines in fair value for credit-related other-than-temporary impairment, if any, are reported in
noninterest income.  

Table of Contents  

Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase  Securities
purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financing transactions with a receivable or payable recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold,
plus accrued interest. Collateral requirements are continually monitored and additional collateral is received or provided as required. The Company records a receivable or payable for cash collateral paid or received.  
  Equity Investments in Operating Entities     Equity investments in public
entities in which the Company s ownership is less than 20 percent are generally accounted for as   available-for-sale   securities and are carried at fair value.
Similar investments in private entities are accounted for using the cost method. Investments in entities where the Company has a significant influence (generally between 20 percent and 50 percent ownership), but does not control the
entity, are accounted for using the equity method. Investments in limited partnerships and limited liability companies where the Company s ownership interest is greater than 5 percent are accounted for using the equity method. All equity
investments are evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if certain criteria are met.     Loans   
 The Company offers a broad array of lending products and categorizes its loan portfolio into three segments, which is the level at which it develops and documents a
systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses. The Company s three loan portfolio segments are commercial lending, consumer lending and covered loans. The Company further disaggregates its loan portfolio segments into
various classes based on their underlying risk characteristics. The two classes within the commercial lending segment are commercial loans and commercial real estate loans. The three classes within the consumer lending segment are residential
mortgages, credit card loans and other retail loans. The covered loan segment consists of only one class.    The Company s accounting methods
for loans differ depending on whether the loans are originated or purchased, and for purchased loans, whether the loans were acquired at a discount related to evidence of credit deterioration since date of origination.  
  Originated Loans Held for Investment  Loans the Company originates as held for investment are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned
income, net deferred loan fees or costs, and any direct principal charge-offs. Interest income is accrued on the unpaid principal balances as earned. Loan and commitment fees and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and recognized over
the life of the loan and/or commitment period as yield adjustments.

Purchased Loans  All purchased loans  (non-impaired  and impaired) acquired
after January 1, 2009 are initially measured at fair value as of the acquisition date in accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance. Credit discounts are included in the determination of fair value. An allowance for credit
losses is not recorded at the acquisition date for loans purchased after January 1, 2009. In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance, purchased  non-impaired  loans acquired in a
business combination prior to January 1, 2009 were generally recorded at the predecessor s carrying value including an allowance for credit losses.  
 In determining the acquisition date fair value of purchased impaired loans, and in subsequent accounting, the Company generally aggregates purchased
consumer loans and certain smaller balance commercial loans into pools of loans with common risk characteristics, while accounting for larger balance commercial loans individually. Expected cash flows at the purchase date in excess of the fair value
of loans are recorded as interest income over the life of the loans if the timing and amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable. Subsequent to the purchase date, increases in cash flows over those expected at the purchase date are
recognized as interest income prospectively. The present value of any decreases in expected cash flows, other than from decreases in variable interest rates, after the purchase date is recognized by recording an allowance for credit losses.
Revolving loans, including lines of credit and credit cards loans, and leases are excluded from purchased impaired loans accounting.    For
purchased loans acquired after January 1, 2009 that are not deemed impaired at acquisition, credit discounts representing the principal losses expected over the life of the loan are a component of the initial fair value. Subsequent to the
purchase date, the methods utilized to estimate the required allowance for credit losses for these loans is similar to originated loans; however, the Company records a provision for credit losses only when the required allowance exceeds any
remaining credit discounts. The remaining differences between the purchase price and the unpaid principal balance at the date of acquisition are recorded in interest income over the life of the loans.  
  Covered Assets  Loans covered under loss sharing or similar credit protection agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) are
reported in loans along with the related indemnification asset. Foreclosed real estate covered under similar agreements is recorded in other assets. In accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance effective for the Company beginning
January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and related indemnification assets are recorded at fair value at the date of purchase.    Effective
January 1, 2013, the Company amortizes any reduction in expected cash flows from the FDIC resulting from increases in expected cash flows from the covered assets (when there are no previous valuation allowances to reverse) over the shorter of
the remaining contractual term of the indemnification agreements or the remaining life of the covered assets. Prior to

Table of Contents  

January 1, 2013, the Company considered such increases in expected cash flows of purchased loans and decreases in expected cash flows of the FDIC indemnification assets together and
recognized them over the remaining life of the loans.     Commitments to Extend Credit  Unfunded commitments for residential mortgage loans intended to be held
for sale are considered derivatives and recorded in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in noninterest income. All other unfunded loan commitments are not considered
derivatives and are not reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. For loans purchased after January 1, 2009, the fair value of the unfunded credit commitments is generally considered in the determination of the fair value of the loans
recorded at the date of acquisition. Reserves for credit exposure on all other unfunded credit commitments are recorded in other liabilities.     Allowance for
Credit Losses  The allowance for credit losses is established for probable and estimable losses incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, and includes certain amounts that do not represent
loss exposure to the Company because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. The allowance for credit losses is increased through provisions charged to earnings and reduced by net charge-offs. Management evaluates
the adequacy of the allowance for incurred losses on a quarterly basis.    The allowance recorded for loans in the commercial lending segment is
based on reviews of individual credit relationships and considers the migration analysis of commercial lending segment loans and actual loss experience. For each loan type, this historical loss experience is adjusted as necessary to consider any
relevant changes in portfolio composition, lending policies, underwriting standards, risk management practices or economic conditions. The results of the analysis are evaluated quarterly to confirm the selected loss experience is appropriate for
each commercial loan type. The allowance recorded for impaired loans greater than $5 million in the commercial lending segment is based on an individual loan analysis utilizing expected cash flows discounted using the original effective
interest rate, the observable market price of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral, less selling costs, for collateral-dependent loans, rather than the migration analysis. The allowance recorded for all other commercial lending segment
loans is determined on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics of the portfolio, delinquency status, bankruptcy experience, portfolio growth and historical losses, adjusted for current trends. The
Company also considers the impacts of any loan modifications made to commercial lending segment loans and any subsequent payment defaults to its expectations of cash flows, principal balance, and current expectations about the borrower s
ability to pay in determining the allowance for credit losses.    The allowance recorded for Troubled Debt Restructuring ( TDR ) loans and
purchased impaired loans in the consumer

lending segment is determined on a homogenous pool basis utilizing expected cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate of the pool, or the prior quarter effective rate,
respectively. The allowance for collateral-dependent loans in the consumer lending segment is determined based on the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. The allowance recorded for all other consumer lending segment loans is determined
on a homogenous pool basis and includes consideration of product mix, risk characteristics of the portfolio, bankruptcy experience, delinquency status, refreshed
  loan-to-value   ratios when possible, portfolio growth and historical losses, adjusted for current trends. The Company also considers any modifications made to consumer
lending segment loans including the impacts of any subsequent payment defaults since modification in determining the allowance for credit losses, such as the borrower s ability to pay under the restructured terms, and the timing and amount of
payments.    The allowance for the covered loan segment is evaluated each quarter in a manner similar to that described for  non-covered  loans and reflects decreases in expected cash flows of those loans after the acquisition date. The provision for credit losses for covered loans considers the indemnification provided by the FDIC.  
 In addition, subsequent payment defaults on loan modifications considered TDRs are considered in the underlying factors used in the determination of
the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. For each loan segment, the Company estimates future loan charge-offs through a variety of analysis, trends and underlying assumptions. With respect to the commercial lending segment, TDRs may
be collectively evaluated for impairment where observed performance history, including defaults, is a primary driver of the loss allocation. For commercial TDRs individually evaluated for impairment, attributes of the borrower are the primary
factors in determining the allowance for credit losses. However, historical loss experience is also incorporated into the allowance methodology applied to this category of loans. With respect to the consumer lending segment, performance of the
portfolio, including defaults on TDRs, is considered when estimating future cash flows.    The Company s methodology for determining the
appropriate allowance for credit losses for each loan segment also considers the imprecision inherent in the methodologies used. As a result, in addition to the amounts determined under the methodologies described above, management also considers
the potential impact of other qualitative factors which include, but are not limited to, economic factors; geographic and other concentration risks; delinquency and nonaccrual trends; current business conditions; changes in lending policy,
underwriting standards and other relevant business practices; results of internal review; and the regulatory environment. The consideration of these items results in adjustments to allowance amounts included in the Company s allowance for
credit losses for each of the above loan segments.    The Company also assesses the credit risk associated with
 off-balance  sheet loan commitments, letters of credit, and

Table of Contents  

derivatives. Credit risk associated with derivatives is reflected in the fair values recorded for those positions. The liability for  off-balance  sheet
credit exposure related to loan commitments and other credit guarantees is included in other liabilities. Because business processes and credit risks associated with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company
utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments.     Credit Quality  The credit quality of the Company s loan
portfolios is assessed as a function of net credit losses, levels of nonperforming assets and delinquencies, and credit quality ratings as defined by the Company.  
 For all loan classes, loans are considered past due based on the number of days delinquent except for monthly amortizing loans which are classified
delinquent based upon the number of contractually required payments not made (for example, two missed payments is considered 30 days delinquent). When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid accrued interest is reversed, reducing interest
income in the current period.    Commercial lending segment loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and
interest has become 90 days past due or is otherwise considered doubtful. Commercial lending segment loans are generally fully or partially charged down to the fair value of the collateral securing the loan, less costs to sell, when the loan is
placed on nonaccrual.    Consumer lending segment loans are generally  charged-off  at a specific number of
days or payments past due. Residential mortgages and other retail loans secured by  1-4  family properties are generally charged down to the fair value of the collateral securing the loan, less costs to sell, at
180 days past due. Residential mortgage loans and lines in a first lien position are placed on nonaccrual status in instances where a partial  charge-off  occurs unless the loan is well secured and in the
process of collection. Residential mortgage loans and lines in a junior lien position secured by  1-4 family  properties are placed on nonaccrual status at 120 days past due or when they are behind a
first lien that has become 180 days or greater past due or placed on nonaccrual status. Any secured consumer lending segment loan whose borrower has had debt discharged through bankruptcy, for which the loan amount exceeds the fair value of the
collateral, is charged down to the fair value of the related collateral and the remaining balance is placed on nonaccrual status. Credit card loans continue to accrue interest until the account is  charged-off. 
Credit cards are  charged-off  at 180 days past due. Other retail loans not secured by  1-4  family properties are  charged-off  at
120 days past due; and revolving consumer lines are  charged-off  at 180 days past due. Similar to credit cards, other retail loans are generally not placed on nonaccrual status because of the relative
short period of time to  charge-off.  Certain retail customers having financial difficulties may have the terms of their credit card and other loan agreements modified to require only principal payments and, as
such, are reported as nonaccrual.  
 
  For all loan classes, interest payments received on nonaccrual loans are generally recorded as a
reduction to a loan s carrying amount while a loan is on nonaccrual and are recognized as interest income upon payoff of the loan. However, interest income may be recognized for interest payments if the remaining carrying amount of the loan is
believed to be collectible. In certain circumstances, loans in any class may be restored to accrual status, such as when a loan has demonstrated sustained repayment performance or no amounts are past due and prospects for future payment are no
longer in doubt; or when the loan becomes well secured and is in the process of collection. Loans where there has been a partial  charge-off  may be returned to accrual status if all principal and interest
(including amounts previously  charged-off)  is expected to be collected and the loan is current.    Covered
loans not considered to be purchased impaired are evaluated for delinquency, nonaccrual status and  charge-off  consistent with the class of loan they would be included in had the loss share coverage not been in
place. Generally, purchased impaired loans are considered accruing loans. However, the timing and amount of future cash flows for some loans is not reasonably estimable, and those loans are classified as nonaccrual loans with interest income not
recognized until the timing and amount of the future cash flows can be reasonably estimated.    The Company classifies its loan portfolios using
internal credit quality ratings on a quarterly basis. These ratings include pass, special mention and classified, and are an important part of the Company s overall credit risk management process and evaluation of the allowance for credit
losses. Loans with a pass rating represent those loans not classified on the Company s rating scale for problem credits, as minimal credit risk has been identified. Special mention loans are those loans that have a potential weakness deserving
management s close attention. Classified loans are those loans where a well-defined weakness has been identified that may put full collection of contractual cash flows at risk. It is possible that others, given the same information, may reach
different reasonable conclusions regarding the credit quality rating classification of specific loans.     Troubled Debt Restructurings  In certain
circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience difficulties in the near-term. Concessionary modifications are
classified as TDRs unless the modification results in only an insignificant delay in payments to be received. The Company recognizes interest on TDRs if the borrower complies with the revised terms and conditions as agreed upon with the Company and
has demonstrated repayment performance at a level commensurate with the modified terms over several payment cycles, which is generally six months or greater. To the extent a previous restructuring was insignificant, the Company considers the
cumulative effect of past restructurings related to the receivable when determining whether a current restructuring is a TDR.

Table of Contents  

Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans for reporting and measurement purposes.  
 The Company has implemented certain restructuring programs that may result in TDRs. However, many of the Company s TDRs are also determined on a   case-by-case   basis in connection with ongoing loan collection processes.  
 For the commercial lending segment, modifications generally result in the Company working with borrowers on a   case-by-case   basis. Commercial and commercial real estate modifications generally include extensions of the maturity date and may be accompanied by an increase or decrease to the interest rate, which may not
be deemed a market interest rate. In addition, the Company may work with the borrower in identifying other changes that mitigate loss to the Company, which may include additional collateral or guarantees to support the loan. To a lesser extent, the
Company may waive contractual principal. The Company classifies all of the above concessions as TDRs to the extent the Company determines that the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty.  
 Modifications for the consumer lending segment are generally part of programs the Company has initiated. The Company modifies residential mortgage
loans under Federal Housing Administration, United States Department of Veterans Affairs, or its own internal programs. Under these programs, the Company offers qualifying homeowners the opportunity to permanently modify their loan and achieve more
affordable monthly payments by providing loan concessions. These concessions may include adjustments to interest rates, conversion of adjustable rates to fixed rates, extension of maturity dates or deferrals of payments, capitalization of accrued
interest and/or outstanding advances, or in limited situations, partial forgiveness of loan principal. In most instances, participation in residential mortgage loan restructuring programs requires the customer to complete a short-term trial period.
A permanent loan modification is contingent on the customer successfully completing the trial period arrangement, and the loan documents are not modified until that time. The Company reports loans in a trial period arrangement as TDRs and continues
to report them as TDRs after the trial period.    Credit card and other retail loan TDRs are generally part of distinct restructuring programs
providing customers experiencing financial difficulty with modifications whereby balances may be amortized up to 60 months, and generally include waiver of fees and reduced interest rates.  
 In addition, the Company considers secured loans to consumer borrowers that have debt discharged through bankruptcy where the borrower has not
reaffirmed the debt to be TDRs.    Modifications to loans in the covered segment are similar in nature to that described above for  non-covered  loans, and the evaluation and determination of TDR status is similar, except that acquired loans restructured after acquisition are not considered TDRs for accounting and disclosure purposes if the loans
evidenced credit deterioration as of the acquisition date and are accounted for in pools. Losses associated with the modification on covered loans, including the economic impact of interest rate reductions, are generally eligible for reimbursement
under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC.  
 
   Impaired Loans  For all loan classes, a loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current events or
information, it is probable the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due per the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impaired loans include all nonaccrual and TDR loans. For all loan classes, interest income on TDR loans is recognized
under the modified terms and conditions if the borrower has demonstrated repayment performance at a level commensurate with the modified terms over several payment cycles. Interest income is generally not recognized on other impaired loans until the
loan is paid off. However, interest income may be recognized for interest payments if the remaining carrying amount of the loan is believed to be collectible.  
 Factors used by the Company in determining whether all principal and interest payments due on commercial and commercial real estate loans will be
collected and, therefore, whether those loans are impaired include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of the borrower, collateral and/or guarantees on the loan, and the borrower s estimated future ability to pay based on industry,
geographic location and certain financial ratios. The evaluation of impairment on residential mortgages, credit card loans and other retail loans is primarily driven by delinquency status of individual loans or whether a loan has been modified, and
considers any government guarantee where applicable. Individual covered loans, whose future losses are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that substantially reduce the risk of credit losses to the Company, are evaluated for impairment
and accounted for in a manner consistent with the class of loan they would have been included in had the loss sharing coverage not been in place.     Leases  The
Company s lease portfolio includes both direct financing and leveraged leases. The net investment in direct financing leases is the sum of all minimum lease payments and estimated residual values, less unearned income. Unearned income is
recorded in interest income over the terms of the leases to produce a level yield.    The investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease
payments, less nonrecourse debt payments, plus estimated residual values, less unearned income. Income from leveraged leases is recognized over the term of the leases based on the unrecovered equity investment.  
 Residual values on leased assets are reviewed regularly for other-than-temporary impairment. Residual valuations for retail automobile leases are
based on independent assessments of expected used car sale prices at the   end-of-term.   Impairment tests are conducted based on these valuations considering the
probability of the lessee returning the asset to the Company,  re-marketing  efforts, insurance coverage and ancillary fees and costs. Valuations for commercial leases are based upon external or internal
management appraisals. When there is impairment of the Company s interest in the residual value of a leased asset, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value with the writedown recognized in the current period.  
  Other Real Estate  Other real estate owned ( OREO ) is included in other assets, and is property acquired through foreclosure or

Table of Contents  

other proceedings on defaulted loans. OREO is initially recorded at fair value, less estimated selling costs. The fair value of OREO is evaluated regularly and any decreases in value along with
holding costs, such as taxes and insurance, are reported in noninterest expense.     Loans Held For Sale   
 Loans held for sale ( LHFS ) represent mortgage loans intended to be sold in the secondary market and other loans that management has an active plan to sell.
LHFS are carried at the     lower-of-cost-or-fair     value as determined on an aggregate basis
by type of loan with the exception of loans for which the Company has elected fair value accounting, which are carried at fair value. The credit component of any writedowns upon the transfer of loans to LHFS is reflected in loan charge-offs.  
 Where an election is made to carry the LHFS at fair value, any change in fair value is recognized in noninterest income. Where an election is made to
carry LHFS at     lower-of-cost-or-fair     value, any further decreases are recognized in
noninterest income and increases in fair value above the loan cost basis are not recognized until the loans are sold. Fair value elections are made at the time of origination or purchase based on the Company s fair value election policy. The
Company has elected fair value accounting for substantially all its mortgage loans held for sale ( MLHFS ).     Derivative Financial Instruments   
 In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into derivative transactions to manage various risks and to accommodate the business requirements of its
customers. Derivative instruments are reported in other assets or other liabilities at fair value. Changes in a derivative s fair value are recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.  
 All derivative instruments that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are recorded at fair value and classified as either a hedge of the
fair value of a recognized asset or liability ( fair value hedge  a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge  or a
hedge of the volatility of a net investment in foreign operations driven by changes in foreign currency exchange rates ( net investment hedge ). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and designated as a fair
value hedge, and the offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item, are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income
(loss) until cash flows of the hedged item are realized. Any change in fair value resulting from hedge ineffectiveness is immediately recorded in noninterest income. Changes in the fair value of net investment hedges that are highly effective are
recorded in other comprehensive income (loss). The Company performs an assessment, at inception and, at a

minimum, quarterly thereafter, to determine the effectiveness of the derivative in offsetting changes in the value or cash flows of the hedged item(s).  
 If a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is terminated or ceases to be highly effective, the gain or loss in other comprehensive income (loss)
is amortized to earnings over the period the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings. If a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, hedge accounting is ceased and any gain or loss included in other comprehensive income (loss) is
reported in earnings immediately, unless the forecasted transaction is at least reasonably possible of occurring, whereby the amounts remain within other comprehensive income (loss).  
  Revenue Recognition     In the ordinary course of business, the Company
recognizes income derived from various revenue generating activities. Certain revenues are generated from contracts where they are recognized when, or as services or products are transferred to customers for amounts the Company expects to be
entitled. Revenue generating activities related to financial assets and liabilities are also recognized; including mortgage servicing fees, loan commitment fees, foreign currency remeasurements, and gains and losses on securities, equity investments
and unconsolidated subsidiaries. Certain specific policies include the following:     Credit and Debit Card Revenue  Credit and debit card revenue includes
interchange from credit and debit cards processed through card association networks, annual fees, and other transaction and account management fees. Interchange rates are generally set by the credit card associations and based on purchase volumes
and other factors. The Company records interchange as services are provided. Transaction and account management fees are recognized as services are provided, except for annual fees which are recognized over the applicable period. Costs for rewards
programs and certain payments to partners and credit card associations are also recorded within credit and debit card revenue when services are provided. The Company predominately records credit and debit card revenue within the Payment Services
line of business.     Corporate Payment Products Revenue  Corporate payment products revenue primarily includes interchange from corporate and purchasing cards
processed through card association networks and revenue from proprietary network transactions. The Company records corporate payment products revenue as services are provided. Certain payments to credit card associations and customers are also
recorded within corporate payment products revenue as services are provided. Corporate payment products revenue is recorded within the Payment Services line of business.  
  Merchant Processing Services  Merchant processing services revenue consists principally of merchant discount and other transaction and account management fees
charged to merchants  

Table of Contents  

for the electronic processing of card association network transactions, less interchange paid to the card-issuing bank, card association assessments, and revenue sharing amounts. All of these are
recognized at the time the merchant s services are performed. The Company may enter into revenue sharing agreements with referral partners or in connection with purchases of merchant contracts from sellers. The revenue sharing amounts are
determined primarily on sales volume processed or revenue generated for a particular group of merchants. Merchant processing revenue also includes revenues related to
  point-of-sale   equipment recorded as sales when the equipment is shipped or as earned for equipment rentals. The Company records merchant processing services revenue
within the Payment Services line of business.     ATM Processing Services  ATM transaction processing and settlement services are provided to financial
institutions and other clients. Processing revenue is recognized at the time the services are performed. Certain payments to partners and card associations are also recorded within ATM processing services revenue as services are provided. ATM
processing services also include fees earned as part of the Company-owned ATM network. The Company records ATM processing services revenue within the Consumer and Business Banking line of business.  
  Trust and Investment Management Fees  Trust and investment management fees are recognized over the period in which services are performed and are based on a
percentage of the fair value of the assets under management or administration, fixed based on account type, or transaction-based fees. Services provided to clients include trustee, transfer agent, custodian, fiscal agent, escrow, fund accounting and
administration services. Services provided to mutual funds may include selling, distribution and marketing services. Trust and investment management fees are predominately recorded within the Wealth Management and Investment Services line of
business.     Deposit Service Charges  Deposit service charges include service charges on deposit accounts received under depository agreements with customers to
provide access to deposited funds, serve as a custodian of funds, and when applicable, pay interest on deposits. Checking or savings accounts may contain fees for various services used on a day to day basis by a customer. Fees are recognized as
services are delivered to and consumed by the customer, or as penalty fees are charged. Deposit service charges are reported primarily within the Consumer and Business Banking line of business.  
  Treasury Management Fees  Treasury management fees include fees for a broad range of products and services that enables customers to manage their cash more
efficiently. These products and services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, and information reporting. Revenue is recognized as products and services are provided to
customers. The Company

reflects a discount calculated on monthly average collected customer balances. Total treasury management fees are reported primarily within the Corporate and Commercial Banking and Consumer and
Business Banking lines of business.     Commercial Products Revenue  Commercial products revenue primarily includes revenue related to ancillary services
provided to Corporate and Commercial Banking and Consumer and Business Banking customers, including standby letter of credit fees,  non-yield  related loan fees, capital markets related revenue, sales of direct
financing leases, and loan and syndication fees. Sales of direct financing leases are recognized at the point of sale. In addition, the Company may lead or participate with a group of underwriters in raising investment capital on behalf of
securities issuers and charge underwriting fees. These fees are recognized at securities issuance. The Company, in its role as lead underwriter, arranges deal structuring and use of outside vendors for the underwriting group. The Company recognizes
only those fees and expenses related to its underwriting commitment.     Mortgage Banking Revenue  Mortgage banking revenue includes revenue derived from
mortgages originated and subsequently sold, generally with servicing retained. The primary components include: gains and losses on mortgage sales; servicing revenue; changes in fair value for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell and
measured at fair value under the fair value option; changes in fair value for derivative commitments to purchase and originate mortgage loans; changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs  and the impact of risk
management activities associated with the mortgage origination pipeline, funded loans and MSRs. Net interest income from mortgage loans is recorded in interest income. Refer to Other Significant Policies in Note 1, as well as Note 9 and Note 21 for
a further discussion of MSRs. Mortgage banking revenue is reported within the Consumer and Business Banking line of business.     Investment Products Fees 
Investment products fees include commissions related to the execution of requested security trades, distribution fees from sale of mutual funds, and investment advisory fees. Commissions and investment advisory fees are recognized as services are
delivered to and utilized by the customer. Distribution fees are received over time, are dependent on the consumer maintaining their mutual fund asset position and the value of such position. These revenues are estimated and recognized at the point
a significant reversal of revenue becomes remote. Investment products fees are predominately reported within the Wealth Management and Investment Services line of business.  
  Other Noninterest Income  Other noninterest income is primarily related to financial assets including income on unconsolidated subsidiaries and equity method
investments, gains on sale of other investments and corporate owned life insurance proceeds. The Company reports other noninterest income across all lines of business.

Table of Contents  

Other Significant Policies   
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  Goodwill is recorded on acquired businesses if the purchase price exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Other
intangible assets are recorded at their fair value upon completion of a business acquisition or certain other transactions, and generally represent the value of customer contracts or relationships. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject, at a
minimum, to annual tests for impairment at a reporting unit level. In certain situations, an interim impairment test may be required if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit
below its carrying amount. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, using straight-line and accelerated methods and are subject to impairment if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the
carrying amount. Determining the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, includes assessing the current implied fair value of the reporting unit as if it were being acquired in a business combination and comparing it to the carrying amount of the
reporting unit s goodwill. Determining the amount of other intangible asset impairment, if any, includes assessing the present value of the estimated future cash flows associated with the intangible asset and comparing it to the carrying amount
of the asset.     Income Taxes  Deferred taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences between the tax basis of assets and
liabilities and their financial reporting carrying amounts. The Company uses the deferral method of accounting on investments that generate investment tax credits. Under this method, the investment tax credits are recognized as a reduction to the
related asset. Beginning January 1, 2014, the Company presents the expense on certain qualified affordable housing investments in tax expense rather than noninterest expense.  
  Mortgage Servicing Rights  MSRs are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold and servicing is retained or if they are purchased from others. MSRs are
recorded at fair value. The Company determines the fair value by estimating the present value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment rates, option adjusted spread, and other assumptions validated through comparison
to trade information, industry surveys and independent third party valuations. Changes in the fair value of MSRs are recorded in earnings as mortgage banking revenue during the period in which they occur.  
  Pensions  For purposes of its pension plans, the Company utilizes its fiscal  year-end  as the measurement date. At the
measurement date, plan assets are determined based on fair value, generally representing observable market prices or the net asset value provided by the funds  trustee or administrator. The actuarial cost method used to compute the pension
liabilities and related expense is the projected unit credit method. The projected benefit obligation is principally determined based on the present value of projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is
based on the investment yield of high quality corporate bonds available in the

marketplace with maturities equal to projected cash flows of future benefit payments as of the measurement date. Periodic pension expense (or income) includes service costs, interest costs based
on the assumed discount rate, the expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of actuarial gains and losses. Pension accounting reflects the long-term nature of benefit obligations and the
investment horizon of plan assets, and can have the effect of reducing earnings volatility related to short-term changes in interest rates and market valuations. Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments and various
unrecognized gains and losses which are deferred and amortized over the future service periods of active employees. The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on fair value adjusted for the difference
between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The unrealized difference between actual experience and expected returns is included in expense over a period of approximately fifteen years. The overfunded or underfunded status of the
plans is recorded as an asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with changes in that status recognized through other comprehensive income (loss).  
  Premises and Equipment  Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and depreciated primarily on a straight-line basis over the
estimated life of the assets. Estimated useful lives range up to 40 years for newly constructed buildings and from 3 to 20 years for furniture and equipment.  
 Capitalized leases, less accumulated amortization, are included in premises and equipment. Capitalized lease obligations are included in long-term
debt. Capitalized leases are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and the amortization is included in depreciation expense.     Stock-Based
Compensation  The Company grants stock-based awards, which may include restricted stock, restricted stock units and options to purchase common stock of the Company. Stock option grants are for a fixed number of shares to employees and directors
with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant. Restricted stock and restricted stock unit grants are awarded at no cost to the recipient. Stock-based compensation for awards is recognized in the Company s
results of operations over the vesting period. The Company immediately recognizes compensation cost of awards to employees that meet retirement status, despite their continued active employment. The amortization of stock-based compensation reflects
estimated forfeitures adjusted for actual forfeiture experience. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future tax deduction from exercise or release of restrictions. At the time
stock-based awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or restrictions are released, the Company may be required to recognize an adjustment to tax expense, depending on the market price of the Company s common stock at that time.

Table of Contents  

Per Share Calculations  Earnings per common share is calculated using the
 two-class  method under which earnings are allocated to common shareholders and holders of participating securities. Unvested stock-based compensation awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or
dividend equivalents are considered participating securities under the  two-class  method. Net income applicable to U.S. Bancorp common shareholders is then divided by the weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding to determine earnings per common share. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by adjusting income and outstanding shares, assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive securities.  

NOTE 2   

Accounting Changes  
    Stock-Based Compensation  Effective January 1, 2017, the Company adopted accounting guidance, issued by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) in March 2016, simplifying the accounting for stock-based compensation awards issued to employees. The guidance requires all excess tax benefits and deficiencies that pertain to stock-based compensation
awards to be recognized within income tax expense instead of within capital surplus. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.  
  Revenue Recognition  Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted accounting guidance, issued by the FASB in May 2014, clarifying the principles for
recognizing revenue from certain contracts with customers. The guidance does not apply to revenue associated with financial instruments, such as loans and securities. The adoption of this guidance will not be material to the Company s financial
statements.     Financial Instruments   Hedge Accounting  Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted accounting guidance, issued by the FASB in
August 2017, related to hedge accounting. This guidance makes targeted changes to the hedge accounting model to simplify the application of hedge accounting and more closely align financial reporting to an entity s risk management activities.
This guidance expands risk management strategies that qualify for hedge accounting, simplifies certain effectiveness assessment requirements, eliminates separate measurement and reporting of ineffectiveness and changes certain presentation and
disclosure requirements for hedge accounting activities. The adoption of this guidance will not be material to the Company s financial statements.  
  Accounting for Leases  In February 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance, effective for the Company on January 1,

2019, related to the accounting for leases. This guidance requires lessees to recognize all leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as lease assets and lease liabilities based primarily on the
present value of future lease payments. Lessor accounting is largely unchanged. A modified retrospective approach is required at adoption which requires all prior periods presented in the financial statements to be restated, with a cumulative effect
adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the earliest period presented. This guidance also requires additional disclosures regarding leasing arrangements. The Company expects the adoption of this guidance will not be material to its
financial statements.     Financial Instruments Credit Losses  In June 2016, the FASB issued accounting guidance, effective for the Company no later than
January 1, 2020, related to the impairment of financial instruments. This guidance changes existing impairment recognition to a model that is based on expected losses rather than incurred losses, which is intended to result in more timely
recognition of credit losses. This guidance is also intended to reduce the complexity of current accounting guidance by decreasing the number of credit impairment models that entities use to account for debt instruments. A modified retrospective
approach is required at adoption with a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the adoption date. The guidance also requires additional credit quality disclosures for loans. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this
guidance on its financial statements, and expects its allowance for credit losses to increase upon adoption. The extent of this increase will continue to be evaluated and will depend on economic conditions and the composition of the Company s
loan portfolio at the time of adoption.      

NOTE 3   

Restrictions on Cash and Due from  

Banks  
   Banking regulators require bank subsidiaries to maintain minimum average reserve balances, either in the form of vault cash or reserve
balances held with central banks or other financial institutions. The amount of required reserve balances were approximately $3.1 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and primarily represent those
required to be held at the Federal Reserve Bank. In addition to vault cash, the Company held balances at the Federal Reserve Bank and other financial institutions of $2.4 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively, to meet these requirements. These balances are included in cash and due from banks on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Table of Contents  

NOTE 4   

Investment Securities  
   The amortized cost, other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), gross unrealized holding gains and
losses, and fair value of   held-to-maturity   and   available-for-sale   investment securities
at December 31 were as follows:      

(a)  
    Held-to-maturity   investment securities are carried at historical cost or at fair value at the time of transfer from the   available-for-sale   to   held-to-maturity   category, adjusted for amortization of premiums and
accretion of discounts and credit-related other-than-temporary impairment.     

(b)  
    Available-for-sale   investment securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains or losses reported within accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders  equity.     

(c)  
  Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer at origination. When an issuer designation is unavailable, the Company determines at acquisition date the categorization based on asset pool characteristics
(such as weighted-average credit score,   loan-to-value,   loan type, prevalence of low documentation loans) and deal performance (such as pool delinquencies and security
market spreads). When the Company determines the designation, prime securities typically have a weighted-average credit score of 725 or higher and a   loan-to-value   of
80 percent or lower; however, other pool characteristics may result in designations that deviate from these credit score and   loan-to-value   thresholds.

(d)  
  Includes all securities not meeting the conditions to be designated as prime.     

(e)  
  Represents impairment not related to credit for those investment securities that have been determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired.     

(f)  
  Represents unrealized losses on investment securities that have not been determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired.     
    
  The weighted-average maturity of the
  available-for-sale   investment securities was 5.1 years at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The corresponding weighted-average yields were 2.25 percent and
2.06 percent, respectively. The weighted-average maturity of the   held-to-maturity   investment securities was 4.7 years at December 31, 2017 and 4.6 years at
December 31, 2016. The corresponding weighted-average yields were 2.14 percent and 1.93 percent, respectively.    For amortized cost,
fair value and yield by maturity date of   held-to-maturity   and   available-for-sale  
investment securities outstanding at December 31, 2017, refer to Table 13 included in

Management s Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Investment securities with a fair value of $12.8 billion at December 31, 2017, and $11.3 billion at December 31, 2016, were
pledged to secure public, private and trust deposits, repurchase agreements and for other purposes required by contractual obligation or law. Included in these amounts were securities where the Company and certain counterparties have agreements
granting the counterparties the right to sell or pledge the securities. Investment securities securing these types of arrangements had a fair value of $689 million at December 31, 2017, and $755 million at December 31, 2016.

Table of Contents  

The following table provides information about the amount of interest income from taxable and  non-taxable  investment securities:      
   The following table provides
information about the amount of gross gains and losses realized through the sales of   available-for-sale   investment securities:  

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment securities with unrealized losses to
determine whether investment securities are other-than-temporarily impaired considering, among other factors, the nature of the investment securities, the credit ratings or financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration of the unrealized
loss, expected cash flows of underlying collateral, the existence of any government or agency guarantees, market conditions and whether the Company intends to sell or it is more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the investment
securities. The Company determines other-than-temporary impairment recorded in

earnings for debt securities not intended to be sold by estimating the future cash flows of each individual investment security, using market information where available, and discounting the cash
flows at the original effective rate of the investment security. Other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) is measured as the difference between that discounted amount and the fair value of each investment
security. The total amount of other-than-temporary impairment recorded was immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

At December 31, 2017, certain investment
securities had a fair value below amortized cost. The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company s investment securities with unrealized losses, aggregated by investment category and length of time the
individual investment securities have been in continuous unrealized loss positions, at December 31, 2017:      

The Company does not consider these unrealized losses to be credit-related. These unrealized losses
primarily relate to changes in interest rates and market spreads subsequent to purchase. A substantial portion of investment securities that have unrealized losses are either U.S. Treasury and agencies, agency mortgage-backed or state and political
securities. In general, the issuers of the investment securities are contractually prohibited

from prepayment at less than par, and the Company did not pay significant purchase premiums for these investment securities. At December 31, 2017, the Company had no plans to sell investment
securities with unrealized losses, and believes it is more likely than not it would not be required to sell such investment securities before recovery of their amortized cost.

Table of Contents  

NOTE 5   

Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses  
   The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31, disaggregated by class and underlying specific portfolio type, was as
follows:      

The Company had loans of $83.3 billion at December 31, 2017, and $84.5 billion at
December 31, 2016, pledged at the Federal Home Loan Bank, and loans of $68.0 billion at December 31, 2017, and $66.5 billion at December 31, 2016, pledged at the Federal Reserve Bank.  
 The majority of the Company s loans are to borrowers in the states in which it has Consumer and Business Banking offices. Collateral for
commercial loans may include marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and real estate. For details of the Company s commercial portfolio by industry group and geography as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, see Table 7
included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 For detail of the Company s commercial real estate portfolio by property type and geography as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, see Table 8
included in Management s Discussion and

Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Collateral for such loans may include the related property, marketable securities, accounts
receivable, inventory and equipment.    Originated loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned interest and deferred
fees and costs. Net unearned interest and deferred fees and costs amounted to $830 million at December 31, 2017, and $672 million at December 31, 2016. All purchased loans and related indemnification assets are recorded at fair
value at the date of purchase. The Company evaluates purchased loans for impairment at the date of purchase in accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance. Purchased loans with evidence of credit deterioration since origination for
which it is probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered  purchased impaired loans.  All other purchased loans are considered  purchased nonimpaired loans. 

Table of Contents  

Changes in the accretable balance for purchased impaired loans for the years ended December 31, were as follows:

(a)  
  Primarily relates to changes in expected credit performance.     
    
   Allowance for Credit Losses  The allowance for credit losses is established for probable and estimable losses
incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio, including unfunded credit

commitments, and includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure to the Company because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC.

Activity in the allowance for credit losses by
portfolio class was as follows:      

(a)  
  Includes net changes in credit losses to be reimbursed by the FDIC and reductions in the allowance for covered loans where the reversal of a previously recorded allowance was offset by an associated decrease in the
indemnification asset, and the impact of any loan sales.     

Table of Contents  

Additional detail of the allowance for credit losses by portfolio class was as follows:  

(a)  
  Represents the allowance for credit losses related to loans greater than $5 million classified as nonperforming or TDRs.     
 Additional detail of loan balances by portfolio class was as follows:      

(a)  
  Represents loans greater than $5 million classified as nonperforming or TDRs.     

(b)  
  Includes expected reimbursements from the FDIC under loss sharing agreements.     
    
   Credit Quality  The credit quality of the Company s loan portfolios is assessed as a function of net credit
losses, levels of nonperforming assets and delinquencies, and credit quality

ratings as defined by the Company. These credit quality ratings are an important part of the Company s overall credit risk management and evaluation of its allowance for credit losses.

Table of Contents  

The following table provides a summary of loans by portfolio class, including the delinquency status of those that
continue to accrue interest, and those that are nonperforming:      

(a)  
  At December 31, 2017, $385 million of loans 30 89 days past due and $1.9 billion of loans 90 days or more past due purchased from Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA )
mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, were classified as current, compared with $273 million and $2.5 billion at
December 31, 2016, respectively.     
    
  Total nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans, restructured loans not performing in accordance
with modified terms, other real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by the Company. For details of the Company s nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, see Table 16 included in Management s Discussion and
Analysis which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    At December 31, 2017, the amount of
foreclosed residential real estate held by the Company, and included in OREO, was $156 million ($135 million excluding covered assets), compared with $201 million ($175 million excluding covered assets) at December 31, 2016.
These amounts exclude $267 million and

$373 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, of foreclosed residential real estate related to mortgage loans whose payments are primarily insured by the Federal Housing
Administration or guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. In addition, the amount of residential mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in the process of foreclosure at December 31, 2017 and 2016, was
$1.7 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, of which $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, related to loans purchased from Government National Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools whose repayments are
insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.  

Table of Contents  

The following table provides a summary of loans by portfolio class and the Company s internal credit quality
rating:      

(a)  
  Classified rating on consumer loans primarily based on delinquency status.     

(b)  
  At December 31, 2017, $1.9 billion of GNMA loans 90 days or more past due and $1.7 billion of restructured GNMA loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by
the United States Department of Veterans Affairs were classified with a pass rating, compared with $2.5 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2016, respectively.     
 For all loan classes, a loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current events or information, it is probable the Company will be unable to collect all amounts
due per the contractual terms of the loan agreement. A summary of impaired loans, which include all nonaccrual and TDR loans, by portfolio class was as follows:      

(a)  
  Substantially all loans classified as impaired at December 31, 2017 and 2016, had an associated allowance for credit losses. The total amount of interest income recognized during 2017 on loans classified as
impaired at December 31, 2017, excluding those acquired with deteriorated credit quality, was $204 million, compared to what would have been recognized at the original contractual terms of the loans of $265 million.

Table of Contents  

Additional information on impaired loans for the years ended December 31 follows:  

Table of Contents  

Troubled Debt Restructurings  In certain circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to maximize
the collection of amounts due when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience difficulties in the near-term. The following table provides a summary of loans modified as TDRs for the years ended December 31,
by portfolio class:      

Residential mortgages, home equity and second mortgages, and loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools
in the table above include trial period arrangements offered to customers during the periods presented. The post-modification balances for these loans reflect the current outstanding balance until a permanent modification is made. In addition, the
post-modification balances typically include capitalization of unpaid accrued interest and/or fees under the various modification programs. For those loans modified as TDRs during the fourth

quarter of 2017, at December 31, 2017, 37 residential mortgages, 25 home equity and second mortgage loans and 983 loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools with outstanding balances of
$5 million, $2 million and $125 million, respectively, were in a trial period and have estimated post-modification balances of $5 million, $2 million and $125 million, respectively, assuming permanent modification
occurs at the end of the trial period.  

Table of Contents  

The following table provides a summary of TDR loans that defaulted (fully or partially
 charged-off  or became 90 days or more past due) for the years ended December 31, that were modified as TDRs within 12 months previous to default:  

In addition to the defaults in the table above, the Company had a total of 1,768 residential mortgage
loans, home equity and second mortgage loans and loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools for the year ended December 31, 2017, where borrowers did not successfully complete the trial period

arrangement and, therefore, are no longer eligible for a permanent modification under the applicable modification program. These loans had aggregate outstanding balances of $206 million for
the year ended December 31, 2017.  

Covered Assets  Covered assets represent loans
and other assets acquired from the FDIC, subject to loss sharing agreements, and include expected reimbursements from the FDIC. The carrying amount of the covered assets at December 31, consisted of purchased impaired loans, purchased
nonimpaired loans and other assets as shown in the following table:      

(a)  
  Relates to loss sharing agreements with remaining terms up through the fourth quarter of 2019.     

(b)  
  Represents decreases in expected reimbursements by the FDIC as a result of decreases in expected losses on the covered loans. These amounts are amortized as a reduction in interest income on covered loans over
the shorter of the expected life of the respective covered loans or the remaining contractual term of the indemnification agreements.     

Table of Contents  

Interest income is recognized on purchased impaired loans through accretion of the difference between
the carrying amount of those loans and their expected cash flows. The initial determination of the fair value of the purchased loans includes the

impact of expected credit losses and, therefore, no allowance for credit losses is recorded at the purchase date. To the extent credit deterioration occurs after the date of acquisition, the
Company records an allowance for credit losses.  

NOTE 6   

Leases  
   The components of the net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases at December 31 were as follows:  

The minimum future lease payments to be received from sales-type and direct financing leases were as follows at December 31, 2017:  

NOTE 7   

Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Variable Interest  

Entities  

The Company transfers financial assets in the normal course of business. The majority of the Company s financial
asset transfers are residential mortgage loan sales primarily to government-sponsored enterprises ( GSEs ), transfers of  tax-advantaged  investments, commercial loan sales through participation
agreements, and other individual or portfolio loan and securities sales. In accordance with the accounting guidance for asset transfers, the Company considers any ongoing involvement with transferred assets in determining whether the assets can be
derecognized from the balance sheet. Guarantees provided to certain third parties in connection with the transfer of assets are further discussed in Note 22.  
 For loans sold under participation agreements, the Company also considers whether the terms of the loan participation agreement meet the accounting
definition of a participating interest. With the exception of servicing and certain performance-based guarantees, the Company s continuing involvement with financial assets sold is minimal and generally limited to market customary
representation and warranty clauses. Any gain or loss on sale depends on the previous carrying amount of the transferred financial assets, the consideration received, and any liabilities incurred in exchange for the transferred assets. Upon
transfer, any servicing assets and other interests that continue to be held by the Company are initially recognized at fair value. For further information on MSRs, refer to Note 9. On a limited basis, the Company may acquire and package high-grade
corporate bonds for select corporate customers, in which the Company generally has no continuing involvement with these transactions. Additionally, the Company is an authorized GNMA issuer and issues GNMA securities on a regular basis. The Company
has no

other asset securitizations or similar asset-backed financing arrangements that are  off-balance  sheet.  
 The Company also provides financial support primarily through the use of waivers of management fees associated with various unconsolidated registered
money market funds it manages. The Company provided $23 million, $45 million and $112 million of support to the funds during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
 The Company is involved in various entities that are considered to be VIEs. The Company s investments in VIEs are primarily related to
investments promoting affordable housing, community development and renewable energy sources. Some of these  tax-advantaged  investments support the Company s regulatory compliance with the Community
Reinvestment Act. The Company s investments in these entities generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other tax benefits, such as tax deductions from operating losses of the investments,
over specified time periods. These tax credits are recognized as a reduction of tax expense or, for investments qualifying as investment tax credits, as a reduction to the related investment asset. The Company recognized federal and state income tax
credits related to its affordable housing and other  tax-advantaged  investments in tax expense of $711 million, $698 million and $733 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and
2015, respectively. The Company also recognized $1.5 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion of investment tax credits for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company recognized $741 million,
$672 million and $698 million of expenses related to all of these investments for the years ended

Table of Contents  

December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, of which $317 million, $251 million and $261 million, respectively, were included in tax expense and the remaining amounts were
included in noninterest expense.    The Company is not required to consolidate VIEs in which it has concluded it does not have a controlling
financial interest, and thus is not the primary beneficiary. In such cases, the Company does not have both the power to direct the entities  most significant activities and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that
could potentially be significant to the VIEs.    The Company s investments in these unconsolidated VIEs are carried in other assets on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company s unfunded capital and other commitments related to these unconsolidated VIEs are generally carried in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company s maximum exposure to loss from
these unconsolidated VIEs include the investment recorded on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet, net of unfunded capital commitments, and previously recorded tax credits which remain subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on
compliance features required to be met at the project level. While the Company believes potential losses from these investments are remote, the maximum exposure was determined by assuming a scenario where the community-based business and housing
projects completely fail and do not meet certain government compliance requirements resulting in recapture of the related tax credits.    The following table provides
a summary of investments in community development and  tax-advantaged  VIEs that the Company has not consolidated:      
   The Company also has noncontrolling financial investments in private investment funds and partnerships considered to
be VIEs, which are not consolidated. The Company s recorded investment in these entities, carried in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, was approximately $30 million at December 31, 2017, and $28 million at
December 31, 2016. The maximum exposure to loss related to these VIEs was $51 million at December 31, 2017 and $50 million at December 31, 2016,

representing the Company s investment balance and its unfunded commitments to invest additional amounts.  
 The Company s individual net investments in unconsolidated VIEs, which exclude any unfunded capital commitments, ranged from less than
$1 million to $56 million at December 31, 2017, compared with less than $1 million to $40 million at December 31, 2016.  
 The Company is required to consolidate VIEs in which it has concluded it has a controlling financial interest. The Company sponsors entities to which
it transfers its interests in  tax-advantaged  investments to third parties. At December 31, 2017, approximately $3.5 billion of the Company s assets and $2.5 billion of its liabilities
included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet were related to community development and  tax-advantaged  investment VIEs which the Company has consolidated, primarily related to these transfers. These amounts
compared to $3.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2016. The majority of the assets of these consolidated VIEs are reported in other assets, and the liabilities are reported in long-term debt and other
liabilities. The assets of a particular VIE are the primary source of funds to settle its obligations. The creditors of the VIEs do not have recourse to the general credit of the Company. The Company s exposure to the consolidated VIEs is
generally limited to the carrying value of its variable interests plus any related tax credits previously recognized or transferred to others with a guarantee.  
 The Company also sponsors a conduit to which it previously transferred high-grade investment securities. The Company consolidates the conduit because
of its ability to manage the activities of the conduit. At December 31, 2017, $18 million of the   held-to-maturity   investment securities on the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheet were related to the conduit, compared with $24 million at December 31, 2016.    In addition, the Company
sponsors a municipal bond securities tender option bond program. The Company controls the activities of the program s entities, is entitled to the residual returns and provides liquidity and remarketing arrangements to the program. As a result,
the Company has consolidated the program s entities. At December 31, 2017, $2.5 billion of   available-for-sale   investment securities and $2.3 billion
of short-term borrowings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet were related to the tender option bond program, compared with $1.1 billion of   available-for-sale  
investment securities and $1.1 billion of short-term borrowings at December 31, 2016.  

NOTE 8   

Premises and Equipment  
   Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:  

Table of Contents  

NOTE 9   

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

The Company serviced $234.7 billion of residential mortgage loans for others at December 31, 2017, and
$232.6 billion at December 31, 2016, which include subserviced mortgages with no corresponding MSRs asset. The net impact included in mortgage banking revenue of fair value changes of MSRs due to changes in valuation assumptions and
derivatives used to

economically hedge MSRs were net gains of $15 million, $7 million and $23 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Loan servicing and
ancillary fees, not including valuation changes, included in mortgage banking revenue were $746 million, $750 million and $728 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

Changes in fair value of capitalized MSRs for the
years ended December 31, are summarized as follows:      

(a)  
  Includes changes in MSR value associated with changes in market interest rates, including estimated prepayment rates and anticipated earnings on escrow deposits.     

(b)  
  Includes changes in MSR value not caused by changes in market interest rates, such as changes in cost to service, ancillary income and option adjusted spread, as well as the impact of any model changes.

(c)  
  Primarily represents changes due to realization of expected cash flows over time (decay).       The estimated
sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative instruments as of December 31 follows:      

The fair value of MSRs and their sensitivity to changes in interest rates is influenced by the mix of
the servicing portfolio and characteristics of each segment of the portfolio. The Company s servicing portfolio consists of the distinct portfolios of government-insured mortgages, conventional mortgages and Housing Finance Agency
( HFA ) mortgages. The servicing portfolios are predominantly comprised of fixed-rate agency loans

with limited adjustable-rate or jumbo mortgage loans. The HFA division specializes in servicing loans made under state and local housing authority programs. These programs provide mortgages to  low-income  and moderate-income borrowers and are generally government-insured programs with a favorable rate subsidy, down payment and/or closing cost assistance.

A summary of the Company s MSRs and related
characteristics by portfolio as of December 31 follows:      

(a)  
  Represents principal balance of mortgages having corresponding MSR asset.     

(b)  
  Calculated as fair value divided by the servicing portfolio.     

(c)  
  Represents loans sold primarily to GSEs.     

(d)  
  Option adjusted spread is the incremental spread added to the risk-free rate to reflect optionality and other risk inherent in the MSRs.     

Table of Contents  

NOTE 10   

Intangible Assets  
   Intangible assets consisted of the following:      

(a)  
  Estimated life represents the amortization period for assets subject to the straight line method and the weighted average or life of the underlying cash flows amortization period for intangibles subject to
accelerated methods. If more than one amortization method is used for a category, the estimated life for each method is calculated and reported separately.     

(b)  
  Amortization methods:         SL = straight line method     

AC  
  = accelerated methods generally based on cash flows     

(c)  
  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment, but not amortized. Mortgage servicing rights are recorded at fair value, and are not amortized.     
 Aggregate amortization expense consisted of the following:          
   The estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows:      
   
   The following table reflects the changes in the carrying value of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015:

Table of Contents  

The composition of deposits at December 31 was as follows:  
   
   The maturities of time deposits outstanding at December 31, 2017 were as follows:  

NOTE 12   

Short-Term Borrowings  (a)   
   The following table is a summary of short-term borrowings for the last three years:  

(a)  
  Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent for the periods presented.     

(b)  
  Average federal funds purchased and total short-term borrowings rates include amounts paid by the Company to certain corporate card customers for paying outstanding noninterest-bearing corporate card balances within
certain timeframes per specific agreements. These activities reduce the Company s short-term funding needs, and if they did not occur, the Company would use other funding alternatives, including the use of federal funds purchased. The amount of
this compensation expense paid by the Company and included in federal funds purchased and total short-term borrowings rates for 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $178 million, $171 million and $175 million, respectively.     

Table of Contents  

Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one year) at December 31 consisted of the following:  

(a)  
  Weighted-average interest rates of medium-term notes, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and bank notes were 2.51 percent, 1.83 percent and 1.86 percent, respectively.     

(b)  
  Includes debt issuance fees and unrealized gains and losses and deferred amounts relating to derivative instruments.     

(c)  
  Includes consolidated community development and  tax-advantaged  investment VIEs, capitalized lease obligations, debt issuance fees, and unrealized gains and losses and deferred
amounts relating to derivative instruments.     
    
  The Company has arrangements with the Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank whereby the
Company could have borrowed an additional $87.7 billion and $91.4 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, based on collateral available.

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2017, were:  

NOTE 14   

Shareholders   Equity  

At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company had authority to issue 4 billion shares of common stock and
50 million shares of preferred stock. The Company had 1.7 billion shares of common

stock outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The Company had 59 million shares reserved for future issuances, primarily under its stock incentive plans at December 31, 2017.

The number of shares issued and outstanding and the
carrying amount of each outstanding series of the Company s preferred stock were as follows:      

Table of Contents  

During 2017, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in
40,000 shares of Series J  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series J Preferred Stock ). The Series J Preferred
Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable semiannually, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to 5.300 percent from the date
of issuance to, but excluding, April 15, 2027, and thereafter will accrue and be payable quarterly at a floating rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR plus 2.914 percent. The Series J Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s
option, in whole or in part, on or after April 15, 2027. The Series J Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole, but not in part, prior to April 15, 2027 within 90 days following an official administrative or
judicial decision, amendment to, or change in the laws or regulations that would not allow the Company to treat the full liquidation value of the Series J Preferred Stock as Tier 1 capital for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the
Federal Reserve Board.    During 2015, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 30,000 shares of
Series I  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series I Preferred Stock ). The Series I Preferred Stock has no stated
maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable semiannually, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to 5.125 percent from the date of issuance to, but
excluding, January 15, 2021, and thereafter will accrue and be payable quarterly at a floating rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR plus 3.486 percent. The Series I Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole
or in part, on or after January 15, 2021. The Series I Preferred stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole, but not in part, prior to January 15, 2021 within 90 days following an official administrative or judicial
decision, amendment to, or change in the laws or regulations that would not allow the Company to treat the full liquidation value of the Series I Preferred Stock as Tier 1 capital for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal
Reserve Board.    During 2013, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 20,000 shares of Series H  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series H Preferred Stock ). The Series H Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be
subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to 5.15 percent. The Series H Preferred Stock is redeemable at the
Company s option, in whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2018. The Series H Preferred stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole, but not in part, prior to July 15, 2018 within 90 days following an official
administrative or judicial decision, amendment to, or change in the laws or regulations that would not allow the

Company to treat the full liquidation value of the Series H Preferred Stock as Tier 1 capital for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve.  
 During 2012, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 44,000 shares of Series F  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series F Preferred Stock ). The Series F Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be
subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to 6.50 percent from the date of issuance to, but excluding, January 15,
2022, and thereafter at a floating rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.468 percent. The Series F Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole or in part, on or after January 15, 2022. The Series F
Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole, but not in part, prior to January 15, 2022 within 90 days following an official administrative or judicial decision, amendment to, or change in the laws or regulations that
would not allow the Company to treat the full liquidation value of the Series F Preferred Stock as Tier 1 capital for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board. During 2012, the Company also issued depositary shares
representing an ownership interest in 43,400 shares of Series G  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series G Preferred
Stock ). During 2017, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of the Series G Preferred Stock at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference amount. The Company included a $10 million loss in the computation of earnings per
diluted common share for 2017, which represents the stock issuance costs recorded in preferred stock upon the issuance of the Series G Preferred Stock that were reclassified to retained earnings on the date the Company provided notice of its intent
to redeem the outstanding shares.    During 2010, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 5,746 shares of
Series A  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock (the  Series A Preferred Stock ) to investors, in exchange for their portion of USB Capital IX Income Trust Securities. During 2011, the Company
issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in 6,764 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to USB Capital IX, thereby settling the stock purchase contract established between the Company and USB Capital IX as part of the 2006 issuance
of USB Capital IX Income Trust Securities. The preferred shares were issued to USB Capital IX for the purchase price specified in the stock forward purchase contract. The Series A Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $100,000 per
share, no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus
1.02 percent or 3.50 percent. The Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board.

Table of Contents  

During 2006, the Company issued depositary shares representing an ownership interest in
40,000 shares of Series B  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the  Series B Preferred Stock ). The Series B Preferred
Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus
..60 percent, or 3.50 percent. The Series B Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board.

During 2017, 2016 and 2015, the Company repurchased shares of its common stock under various
authorizations approved by its Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2017, the approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased by the Company under the current Board of Directors approved authorization was $1.3 billion.  
 The following table summarizes the Company s common stock repurchased in each of the last three years:  

Shareholders  equity is affected by
transactions and valuations of asset and liability positions that require adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The reconciliation of the transactions affecting accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in
shareholders  equity for the years ended December 31, is as follows:      

(a)  
  Represents the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the Company s investment in foreign operations and related hedges.     

Table of Contents  

Additional detail about the impact to net income for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) and into earnings for the years ended December 31, is as follows:      

Regulatory Capital  The Company uses certain measures defined by bank regulatory agencies to assess its capital.
Beginning January 1, 2014, the regulatory capital requirements effective for the Company follow Basel III, subject to certain transition provisions from Basel I over the following four years to full implementation by January 1, 2018. Basel
III includes two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets: a general standardized approach and more risk-sensitive advanced approaches, with the Company s capital adequacy being evaluated against the methodology that is
most restrictive.    Tier 1 capital is considered core capital and includes common shareholders  equity adjusted for the aggregate impact of
certain items included in other comprehensive income (loss) ( common equity tier 1 capital ), plus qualifying preferred stock, trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries subject to certain
limitations. Total risk-based capital

includes Tier 1 capital and other items such as subordinated debt and the allowance for credit losses. Capital measures are stated as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, which are measured
based on their perceived credit and operational risks and include certain  off-balance  sheet exposures, such as unfunded loan commitments, letters of credit, and derivative contracts. Under the standardized
approach, the Company is also subject to a leverage ratio requirement, a non risk-based asset ratio, which is defined as Tier 1 capital as a percentage of average assets adjusted for goodwill and other
 non-qualifying  intangibles and other assets.    For a summary of the regulatory capital requirements and the
actual ratios as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, for the Company and its bank subsidiary, see Table 23 included in Management s Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

Table of Contents  

The following table provides the components of the Company s regulatory capital at December 31:  

(a)  
  Includes the impact of items included in other comprehensive income (loss), such as unrealized gains (losses) on   available-for-sale  
securities, accumulated net gains on cash flow hedges, pension liability adjustments, etc., and the portion of deferred tax assets related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards not eligible for common equity tier 1 capital.

(b)  
  Includes the remaining portion of deferred tax assets not eligible for total tier 1 capital.     
    
  Noncontrolling interests principally represent third party investors  interests in consolidated
entities, including preferred stock of consolidated subsidiaries. During 2006, the Company s banking subsidiary formed USB Realty Corp., a real estate investment trust, for the purpose of issuing 5,000 shares of
  Fixed-to-Floating   Rate Exchangeable  Non-cumulative  Perpetual Series A Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000
per share ( Series A Preferred Securities ) to third party investors. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Securities, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR plus
1.147 percent. If USB Realty Corp. has not declared a dividend on the Series A Preferred Securities before the dividend payment date for any dividend period, such dividend shall not be cumulative and shall

cease to accrue and be payable, and USB Realty Corp. will have no obligation to pay dividends accrued for such dividend period, whether or not dividends on the Series A Preferred Securities are
declared for any future dividend period.    The Series A Preferred Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of USB Realty
Corp. on each fifth anniversary after the dividend payment date occurring in January 2012. Any redemption will be subject to the approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. During 2016, the Company purchased 500 shares of the Series A
Preferred Securities held by third party investors at an amount below their carrying amount, recording a net gain of $9 million directly to retained earnings. As of December 31, 2017, 4,500 shares of the Series A Preferred Securities
remain outstanding.  

Table of Contents  

NOTE 15   

Earnings Per Share  
   The components of earnings per share were:         

(a)  
  Represents stock issuance costs originally recorded in preferred stock upon the issuance of the Company s Series G Preferred Stock that were reclassified to retained earnings on the date the Company announced
its intent to redeem the outstanding shares.     

(b)  
  Represents the difference between the carrying amount and amount paid by the Company to purchase third party investor holdings of the preferred stock of USB Realty Corp, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company.

Options outstanding at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, to purchase 1 million common shares,
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended

December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, because they were antidilutive.

NOTE 16   

Employee Benefits  

Employee Retirement Savings Plan  The Company has a defined contribution retirement savings plan that covers
substantially all its employees. Qualified employees are allowed to contribute up to 75 percent of their annual compensation, subject to Internal Revenue Service limits, through salary deductions under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code. Employee contributions are invested at their direction among a variety of investment alternatives. Employee contributions are 100 percent matched by the Company, up to four percent of each employee s eligible annual
compensation. The Company s matching contribution vests immediately and is invested in the same manner as each employee s future contribution elections. Total expense for the Company s matching contributions was $156 million,
$142 million and $131 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.     Pension Plans  The Company has a tax qualified noncontributory defined benefit
pension plan that provides benefits to substantially all its employees. Participants receive annual cash balance pay credits based on eligible pay multiplied by a percentage determined by their age and years of service. Participants also receive an
annual interest credit. Employees become vested upon completing three years of vesting service. For participants in the plan before 2010 that elected to stay under their existing formula, pension benefits are provided to eligible employees based on
years of service, multiplied by a percentage of their final average pay. Additionally, as a result of plan mergers, a portion of pension benefits may also be provided using a cash balance benefit formula where only interest credits continue to be
credited to participants  accounts.  
 
  In general, the Company s qualified pension plan s funding objectives include maintaining a
funded status sufficient to meet participant benefit obligations over time while reducing long-term funding requirements and pension costs. The Company has an established process for evaluating the plan, its performance and significant plan
assumptions, including the assumed discount rate and the long-term rate of return ( LTROR ). Annually, the Company s Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the  Committee ), assisted by outside consultants, evaluates
plan objectives, funding policies and plan investment policies considering its long-term investment time horizon and asset allocation strategies. The process also evaluates significant plan assumptions. Although plan assumptions are established
annually, the Company may update its analysis on an interim basis in order to be responsive to significant events that occur during the year, such as plan mergers and amendments.  
 The Company s funding policy is to contribute amounts to its plan sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act, plus such additional amounts as the Company determines to be appropriate. The Company contributed $1.2 billion and $358 million to its qualified pension plan in 2017
and 2016, respectively, and does not expect to contribute to the plan in 2018. Any contributions made to the qualified plan are invested in accordance with established investment policies and asset allocation strategies.  
 In addition to the funded qualified pension plan, the Company maintains a  non-qualified  plan that is unfunded
and provides benefits to certain employees. The assumptions used in  

Table of Contents  

computing the accumulated benefit obligation, the projected benefit obligation and net pension expense are substantially consistent with those assumptions used for the funded qualified plan. In
2018, the Company expects to contribute $23 million to its  non-qualified  pension plan which equals the 2018 expected benefit payments.        
 
   Postretirement Welfare Plan  In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides health care and death
benefits to certain former employees who retired prior to January 1, 2014. Employees retiring after December 31, 2013, are not eligible for retiree health care benefits. The Company expects to contribute $5 million to its
postretirement welfare plan in 2018.  

The following table summarizes the changes in
benefit obligations and plan assets for the years ended December 31, and the funded status and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31 for the retirement plans:  

The following table provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31:  

Table of Contents  

The following table sets forth the components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31 for the retirement plans:      

(a)  
  The pretax estimated actuarial loss (gain) for the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost in 2018 is $146 million.

(b)  
  The pretax estimated actuarial loss (gain) and prior service cost (credit) for the postretirement welfare plan that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost
in 2018 are $(6) million and $(3) million, respectively.       The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used to determine the
projected benefit obligations at December 31:      

(b)  
  Determined on an active liability-weighted basis.     

*  
  Not applicable     

Table of Contents  

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years
ended December 31:      

(b)  
  With the help of an independent pension consultant, the Company considers several sources when developing its expected long-term rates of return on plan assets assumptions, including, but not limited to, past returns
and estimates of future returns given the plans  asset allocation, economic conditions, and peer group LTROR information. The Company determines its expected long-term rates of return reflecting current economic conditions and plan assets.

(c)  
  Determined on an active liability weighted basis.     

*  
  Not applicable     
    
   Investment Policies and Asset Allocation  In establishing its investment policies and asset allocation strategies,
the Company considers expected returns and the volatility associated with different strategies. An independent consultant performs modeling that projects numerous outcomes using a broad range of possible scenarios, including a mix of possible rates
of inflation and economic growth. Starting with current economic information, the model bases its projections on past relationships between inflation, fixed income rates and equity returns when these types of economic conditions have existed over
the previous 30 years, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Estimated future returns and other actuarially determined adjustments are also considered in calculating the estimated return on assets.  
 Generally, based on historical performance of the various investment asset classes, investments in equities have outperformed other investment classes
but are subject to higher volatility. In an effort to minimize volatility, while recognizing the long-term  up-side  potential of investing in equities, the Committee has determined that a target asset
allocation of 43 percent global equities, 30 percent debt securities, 7 percent domestic  mid-small  cap equities, 5 percent emerging markets equities, 5 percent real estate equities,
5 percent hedge funds and 5 percent private equity funds is appropriate.

At December 31, 2017 and 2016, plan assets of the qualified pension plan included an asset
management arrangement with related party totaling $798 million and $48 million, respectively.    In accordance with authoritative
accounting guidance, the Company groups plan assets into a three-level hierarchy for valuation techniques used to measure their fair value based on whether the valuation inputs are observable or unobservable. Refer to Note 21 for further discussion
on these levels.    The assets of the qualified pension plan include investments in equity and U.S. Treasury securities whose fair values are
determined based on quoted prices in active markets and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The qualified pension plan also invests in U.S. agency, corporate and municipal debt securities, which are all valued based on
observable market prices or data by third-party pricing services, and mutual funds which are valued based on quoted net asset values provided by the trustee of the fund; these assets are classified as Level 2. Additionally, the qualified
pension plan invests in certain assets that are valued based on net asset values as a practical expedient, including investments in collective investment funds, hedge funds, and private equity funds; the net asset values are provided by the fund
trustee or administrator and are not classified in the fair value hierarchy.  

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes plan investment assets measured at fair value at December 31:  

(a)  
  Includes an employer contribution made in late 2017, which was invested consistent with the plan s target asset allocation, subsequent to December 31, 2017.     

(d)  
  This category consists of several investment strategies diversified across several hedge fund managers.     

(e)  
  This category consists of several investment strategies diversified across several private equity fund managers.     

(f)  
  These investments are valued based on net asset value per share as a practical expedient; fair values are provided to reconcile to total investment assets of the plans at fair value.     
 The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for qualified pension plan investment assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs
(Level 3) for the years ended December 31:      
   The following benefit payments are expected to be paid from the retirement plans for the years ended December 31:  

(a)  
  Net of expected retiree contributions and before Medicare Part D subsidy.     

Table of Contents  

NOTE 17   

Stock-Based Compensation  

As part of its employee and director compensation programs, the Company currently may grant certain stock awards under
the provisions of its stock incentive plan. The plan provides for grants of options to purchase shares of common stock at a fixed price equal to the fair value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Option grants are generally exercisable up
to ten years from the date of grant. In addition, the plan provides for grants of shares of common stock or stock units that are subject to restriction on transfer prior to vesting. Most stock and unit awards vest over

three to five years and are subject to forfeiture if certain vesting requirements are not met. Stock incentive plans of acquired companies are generally terminated at the merger closing dates.
Participants under such plans receive the Company s common stock, or options to buy the Company s common stock, based on the conversion terms of the various merger agreements. At December 31, 2017, there were 37 million shares
(subject to adjustment for forfeitures) available for grant under the Company s stock incentive plan.  

Stock Option Awards   
 The following is a summary of stock options outstanding and exercised under prior and existing stock incentive plans of the Company:  

(a)  
  Options cancelled include both  non-vested  (i.e., forfeitures) and vested options.     

(b)  
  Outstanding options include stock-based awards that may be forfeited in future periods. The impact of the estimated forfeitures is reflected in compensation expense.     
    
  Stock-based compensation expense is based on the estimated fair value of the award at the date of grant or modification.
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, requiring the use of subjective assumptions. Because employee stock options have characteristics that differ from those of traded
options, including vesting provisions and trading limitations that impact

their liquidity, the determined value used to measure compensation expense may vary from the actual fair value of the employee stock options. The following table includes the weighted-average
estimated fair value of stock options granted and the assumptions utilized by the Company for newly issued grants:  

Table of Contents  

Expected stock volatility is based on several factors including the historical volatility of the
Company s common stock, implied volatility determined from traded options and other factors. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations to estimate the expected life of options.

The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the date of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on the
Company s expected dividend yield over the life of the options.  

The following summarizes certain stock option
activity of the Company:      
   To satisfy option exercises, the Company predominantly uses treasury stock.  
 Additional information regarding stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2017, is as follows:  
   
    Restricted Stock and Unit Awards     A summary
of the status of the Company s restricted shares of stock and unit awards is presented below:      

The total fair value of shares vested was $180 million, $128 million and $152 million
for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Stock-based compensation expense was $163 million, $150 million and $125 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. On an  after-tax  basis, stock-based compensation was $101 million, $93 million and $78 million for the years ended

December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, there was $191 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based
arrangements granted under the plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years as compensation expense.

Table of Contents  

The components of income tax expense were:      
   A reconciliation of expected income tax expense at the federal statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s applicable income
tax expense follows:      

(a)  
  In late 2017, tax reform legislation was enacted that, among other provisions, reduced the federal statutory rate for corporations from 35 percent to 21 percent effective in 2018. In accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, the Company revalued its deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017, resulting in an estimated net tax benefit of $910 million, which the Company recorded in 2017.     

(b)  
  Includes excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation under accounting guidance effective January 1, 2017. Previously, these benefits were recorded in capital surplus.     

(c)  
  Includes the resolution of certain tax matters with taxing authorities in the first quarter of 2015.     
    
  The tax effects of fair value adjustments on securities   available-for-sale,   derivative instruments in cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments, and pension and post-retirement plans are recorded directly to shareholders  equity as part of
other comprehensive income (loss).    In preparing its tax returns, the Company is required to interpret complex tax laws and regulations and
utilize income and cost allocation methods to determine its taxable income. On an ongoing basis, the Company is subject to examinations by federal, state, local and foreign taxing authorities that may give

rise to differing interpretations of these complex laws, regulations and methods. Due to the nature of the examination process, it generally takes years before these examinations are completed
and matters are resolved. Federal tax examinations for all years ending through December 31, 2010, are completed and resolved. The Company s tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2011 through 2016 are under examination by the
Internal Revenue Service. The years open to examination by state and local government authorities vary by jurisdiction.  

A reconciliation of the changes in the federal,
state and foreign unrecognized tax position balances are summarized as follows:      

The total amount of unrecognized tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective income
tax rate as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, were $265 million, $234 million and $165 million, respectively. The Company classifies interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions as a component of income tax
expense. At

December 31, 2017, the Company s unrecognized tax position balance included $53 million in accrued interest. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 the
Company recorded approximately $16 million, $7 million and $(1) million, respectively, in interest on unrecognized tax positions.

Table of Contents  

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax effect of estimated temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes

and the amounts used for the same items for income tax reporting purposes.

The significant components of the Company s net
deferred tax asset (liability) follows:      

The Company has approximately $1.7 billion of federal, state and foreign net operating loss
carryforwards which expire at various times through 2037. A substantial portion of these carryforwards relate to state-only net operating losses, which are subject to a full valuation allowance as they are not expected to be realized within the
carryforward period. Management has determined it is more likely than not the other net deferred tax assets could be realized through carry back to taxable income in prior years, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and future
taxable income.    In addition, the Company has $2.1 billion of federal credit carryforwards which expire at various times through 2037 which

are not subject to a valuation allowance as management believes that it is more likely than not that the credits will be utilized within the carryforward period.  
 At December 31, 2017, retained earnings included approximately $102 million of base year reserves of acquired thrift institutions, for which
no deferred federal income tax liability has been recognized. These base year reserves would be recaptured if certain subsidiaries of the Company cease to qualify as a bank for federal income tax purposes. The base year reserves also remain subject
to income tax penalty provisions that, in general, require recapture upon certain stock redemptions of, and excess distributions to, stockholders.

NOTE 19   

Derivative Instruments  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into derivative transactions to manage various risks and to
accommodate the business requirements of its customers. The Company recognizes all derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value in other assets or in other liabilities. On the date the Company enters into a derivative contract, the
derivative is designated as either a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, net investment hedge, or a designation is not made as it is a customer-related transaction, an economic hedge for asset/liability risk management purposes or another stand-alone
derivative created through the Company s operations ( free-standing derivative ). When a derivative is designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge, the Company performs

an assessment, at inception and, at a minimum, quarterly thereafter, to determine the effectiveness of the derivative in offsetting changes in the value or cash flows of the hedged item(s).  
  Fair Value Hedges  These derivatives are interest rate swaps the Company uses to hedge the change in fair value related to interest rate changes of its
underlying fixed-rate debt. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges, and changes in the fair value of the hedged items, are recorded in earnings. All fair value hedges were highly effective for the year ended
December 31, 2017, and the change in fair value attributed to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.  

Table of Contents  

Cash Flow Hedges  These derivatives are interest rate swaps the Company uses to hedge the forecasted cash
flows from its underlying variable-rate debt. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) until the cash flows of the hedged items are realized. If a derivative designated
as a cash flow hedge is terminated or ceases to be highly effective, the gain or loss in other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized to earnings over the period the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings. If a hedged forecasted
transaction is no longer probable, hedge accounting is ceased and any gain or loss included in other comprehensive income (loss) is reported in earnings immediately, unless the forecasted transaction is at least reasonably possible of occurring,
whereby the amounts remain within other comprehensive income (loss). At December 31, 2017, the Company had $71 million   (net-of-tax)   of realized and unrealized
gains on derivatives classified as cash flow hedges recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), compared with $55 million   (net-of-tax)   of realized and unrealized
gains at December 31, 2016. The estimated amount to be reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings during the next 12 months is a gain of $4 million
  (net-of-tax).   This amount includes gains and losses related to hedges that were terminated early for which the forecasted transactions are still probable. All cash flow
hedges were highly effective for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the change in fair value attributed to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.     Net
Investment Hedges  The Company uses forward commitments to sell specified amounts of certain foreign currencies, and  non-derivative  debt instruments, to hedge the volatility of its net investment in
foreign operations driven by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The ineffectiveness on all net investment hedges was not material for the year ended December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, the carrying amount of  non-derivative  debt instruments designated as net investment hedges was $1.2 billion. There were no  non-derivative  debt instruments designated as net investment hedges at
December 31, 2016.  
 
   Other Derivative Positions  The Company enters into free-standing derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk
and for other risk management purposes. These derivatives include forward commitments to sell   to-be-announced   securities ( TBAs ) and other commitments to sell
residential mortgage loans, which are used to economically hedge the interest rate risk related to residential MLHFS and unfunded mortgage loan commitments. The Company also enters into interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward commitments to buy
TBAs, U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures and options on U.S. Treasury futures to economically hedge the change in the fair value of the Company s MSRs. The Company also enters into foreign currency forwards to economically hedge remeasurement
gains and losses the Company recognizes on foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company acts as a seller and buyer of interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange contracts for its customers. The Company mitigates
the market and liquidity risk associated with these customer derivatives by entering into similar offsetting positions with broker-dealers, or on a portfolio basis by entering into other derivative or
 non-derivative  financial instruments that partially or fully offset the exposure from these customer-related positions. The Company s customer derivatives and related hedges are monitored and reviewed by
the Company s Market Risk Committee, which establishes policies for market risk management, including exposure limits for each portfolio. The Company also has derivative contracts that are created through its operations, including certain
unfunded mortgage loan commitments and swap agreements related to the sale of a portion of its Class B common shares of Visa Inc. Refer to Note 21 for further information on these swap agreements.  
 For additional information on the Company s purpose for entering into derivative transactions and its overall risk management strategies, refer
to  Management Discussion and Analysis   Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks , which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes the asset and liability management derivative positions of the Company:  

(a)  
  Includes derivative liability swap agreements related to the sale of a portion of the Company s Class B common shares of Visa Inc. The Visa swap agreements had a total notional value, fair value and
weighted average remaining maturity of $1.2 billion, $125 million and 2.50 years at December 31, 2017, respectively, compared to $811 million, $106 million and 3.50 years at December 31, 2016, respectively. In addition,
includes short-term underwriting purchase and sale commitments with total asset and liability notional values of $19 million at December 31, 2016.     

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes the customer-related derivative positions of the Company:      

Table of Contents  

The table below shows the effective portion of the gains (losses) recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and
the gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings   (net-of-tax)   for the years ended December 31:  
   
    Note: Ineffectiveness on cash flow and net investment hedges was not material for the years ended
December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.   

(a)  
  Gains (Losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss) into interest expense.       The table below shows
the gains (losses) recognized in earnings for fair value hedges, other economic hedges and the customer-related positions for the years ended December 31:      

Table of Contents  

Derivatives are subject to credit risk associated with counterparties to the derivative contracts. The
Company measures that credit risk using a credit valuation adjustment and includes it within the fair value of the derivative. The Company manages counterparty credit risk through diversification of its derivative positions among various
counterparties, by entering into derivative positions that are centrally cleared through clearinghouses, by entering into master netting arrangements and, where possible, by requiring collateral arrangements. A master netting arrangement allows two
counterparties, who have multiple derivative contracts with each other, the ability to net settle amounts under all contracts, including any related collateral, through a single payment and in a single currency. Collateral arrangements generally
require the counterparty to deliver collateral (typically cash or U.S. Treasury and agency securities) equal to the Company s net derivative receivable,

subject to minimum transfer and credit rating requirements.    The Company s collateral
arrangements are predominately bilateral and, therefore, contain provisions that require collateralization of the Company s net liability derivative positions. Required collateral coverage is based on net liability thresholds and may be
contingent upon the Company s credit rating from two of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. If the Company s credit rating were to fall below credit ratings thresholds established in the collateral arrangements, the
counterparties to the derivatives could request immediate additional collateral coverage up to and including full collateral coverage for derivatives in a net liability position. The aggregate fair value of all derivatives under collateral
arrangements that were in a net liability position at December 31, 2017, was $577 million. At December 31, 2017, the Company had $527 million of cash posted as collateral against this net liability position.

NOTE 20   

Netting Arrangements for Certain Financial Instruments and Securities Financing  

Activities  

The Company s derivative portfolio consists of bilateral   over-the-counter   trades, certain interest rate derivatives and credit contracts required to be centrally cleared through clearinghouses per current regulations, and exchange-traded positions which may include
U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures or options on U.S. Treasury futures. Of the Company s $354.9 billion total notional amount of derivative positions at December 31, 2017, $189.8 billion related to bilateral   over-the-counter   trades, $146.1 billion related to those centrally cleared through clearinghouses and $19.0 billion related to those that were exchange-traded.
Irrespective of how derivatives are traded, the Company s derivative contracts typically include offsetting rights (referred to as netting arrangements), and depending on expected volume, credit risk, and counterparty preference, collateral
maintenance may be required. For all derivatives under collateral support arrangements, fair value is determined daily and, depending on the collateral maintenance requirements, the Company and a counterparty may receive or deliver collateral, based
upon the net fair value of all derivative positions between the Company and the counterparty. Collateral is typically cash, but securities may be allowed under collateral arrangements with certain counterparties. Receivables and payables related to
cash collateral are included in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, along with the related derivative asset and liability fair values. Any securities pledged to counterparties as collateral remain on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Securities received from counterparties as collateral are not recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, unless the counterparty defaults. In general, securities used as collateral can be sold, repledged or otherwise
used by the party in possession. No restrictions exist on the use of cash collateral by either party. Refer to Note 19 for further discussion of the Company s derivatives, including collateral arrangements.

As part of the Company s treasury and broker-dealer operations, the Company executes transactions
that are treated as securities sold under agreements to repurchase or securities purchased under agreements to resell, both of which are accounted for as collateralized financings. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase include repurchase
agreements and securities loaned transactions. Securities purchased under agreements to resell include reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions. For securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the Company records a
liability for the cash received, which is included in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. For securities purchased under agreements to resell, the Company records a receivable for the cash paid, which is included in other assets
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.    Securities transferred to counterparties under repurchase agreements and securities loaned transactions
continue to be recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, are measured at fair value, and are included in investment securities or other assets. Securities received from counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowed
transactions are not recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless the counterparty defaults. The securities transferred under repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions typically are U.S. Treasury and agency securities, residential agency
mortgage-backed securities or corporate debt securities. The securities loaned or borrowed typically are corporate debt securities traded by the Company s broker-dealer. In general, the securities transferred can be sold, repledged or otherwise
used by the party in possession. No restrictions exist on the use of cash collateral by either party. Repurchase/reverse repurchase and securities loaned/borrowed transactions expose the Company to counterparty risk. The Company manages this risk by
performing assessments, independent of business line managers, and establishing concentration limits on each counterparty.

Table of Contents  

Additionally, these transactions include collateral arrangements that require the fair values of the underlying securities to be

determined daily, resulting in cash being obtained or refunded to counterparties to maintain specified collateral levels.

The following table summarizes the maturities by
category of collateral pledged for repurchase agreements and securities loaned transactions:      

The Company executes its derivative, repurchase/reverse repurchase and securities loaned/borrowed
transactions under the respective industry standard agreements. These agreements include master netting arrangements that allow for multiple contracts executed with the same counterparty to be viewed as a single arrangement. This allows for net
settlement of a single amount on a daily basis. In the event of default, the master netting arrangement provides for  close-out  netting, which allows all of these positions with the defaulting counterparty to
be terminated and net settled with a single payment amount.

The Company has elected to offset the assets and liabilities under netting arrangements for the balance
sheet presentation of the majority of its derivative counterparties, excluding certain centrally cleared derivative contracts due to current uncertainty about the legal enforceability of netting arrangements. The netting occurs at the counterparty
level, and includes all assets and liabilities related to the derivative contracts, including those associated with cash collateral received or delivered. The Company has not elected to offset the assets and liabilities under netting arrangements
for the balance sheet presentation of repurchase/reverse repurchase and securities loaned/borrowed transactions.  

The following tables provide information on the
Company s netting adjustments, and items not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but available for offset in the event of default:      

(b)  
  For derivative assets this includes any derivative liability fair values that could be offset in the event of counterparty default; for reverse repurchase agreements this includes any repurchase agreement payables
that could be offset in the event of counterparty default; for securities borrowed this includes any securities loaned payables that could be offset in the event of counterparty default.     

(c)  
  Includes the fair value of securities received by the Company from the counterparty. These securities are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless the counterparty defaults.     

(d)  
  Excludes $723 million and $848 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, of derivative assets not subject to netting arrangements or where uncertainty exists regarding legal enforceability
of the netting arrangements.     

Table of Contents  

(b)  
  For derivative liabilities this includes any derivative asset fair values that could be offset in the event of counterparty default; for repurchase agreements this includes any reverse repurchase agreement
receivables that could be offset in the event of counterparty default; for securities loaned this includes any securities borrowed receivables that could be offset in the event of counterparty default.     

(c)  
  Includes the fair value of securities pledged by the Company to the counterparty. These securities are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless the Company defaults.     

(d)  
  Excludes $738 million and $908 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, of derivative liabilities not subject to netting arrangements or where uncertainty exists regarding legal
enforceability of the netting arrangements.         

NOTE 21   

Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities  

The Company uses fair value measurements for the initial recording of certain assets and liabilities, periodic
remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities, and disclosures. Derivatives, trading and   available-for-sale   investment securities, MSRs and substantially all MLHFS are
recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, the Company may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as loans held for sale, loans held for investment and certain other assets.
These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of
    lower-of-cost-or-fair     value accounting or impairment write-downs of individual assets.
   Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal
or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. A fair value measurement reflects all of the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability, including assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance.  
 The Company groups its assets and liabilities measured at fair value into a three-level hierarchy for valuation techniques used to measure financial
assets and financial liabilities at fair value. This hierarchy is based on whether the valuation inputs are observable or unobservable. These levels are:      

Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 includes U.S. Treasury securities, as well as exchange-traded instruments.    

Level 2   Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be
corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2

includes debt securities that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments and which are typically valued using third party pricing services; derivative contracts and other assets
and liabilities, including securities, whose value is determined using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data; and MLHFS whose values are determined
using quoted prices for similar assets or pricing models with inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data.         

Level 3   Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. This
category includes MSRs, certain debt securities and certain derivative contracts.      When the Company changes its valuation inputs for
measuring financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value, either due to changes in current market conditions or other factors, it may need to transfer those assets or liabilities to another level in the hierarchy based on the new inputs
used. The Company recognizes these transfers at the end of the reporting period in which the transfers occur. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, there were no transfers of financial assets or financial liabilities between
the hierarchy levels.    The Company has processes and controls in place to increase the reliability of estimates it makes in determining fair value
measurements. Items quoted on an exchange are verified to the quoted price. Items provided by a third party pricing service are subject to price verification procedures as described in more detail in the specific valuation discussions below. For
fair  

Table of Contents  

value measurements modeled internally, the Company s valuation models are subject to the Company s Model Risk Governance Policy and Program, as maintained by the Company s risk
management department. The purpose of model validation is to assess the accuracy of the models  input, processing, and reporting components. All models are required to be independently reviewed and approved prior to being placed in use, and are
subject to formal change control procedures. Under the Company s Model Risk Governance Policy, models are required to be reviewed at least annually to ensure they are operating as intended. Inputs into the models are market observable inputs
whenever available. When market observable inputs are not available, the inputs are developed based upon analysis of historical experience and evaluation of other relevant market data. Significant unobservable model inputs are subject to review by
senior management in corporate functions, who are independent from the modeling. Significant unobservable model inputs are also compared to actual results, typically on a quarterly basis. Significant Level 3 fair value measurements are also
subject to corporate-level review and are benchmarked to market transactions or other market data, when available. Additional discussion of processes and controls are provided in the valuation methodologies section that follows.  
 The following section describes the valuation methodologies used by the Company to measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value and for
estimating fair value for financial instruments not recorded at fair value as required under disclosure guidance related to the fair value of financial instruments. In addition, the following section includes an indication of the level of the fair
value hierarchy in which the assets or liabilities are classified. Where appropriate, the description includes information about the valuation models and key inputs to those models. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, there
were no significant changes to the valuation techniques used by the Company to measure fair value.     Cash and Due From Banks    The carrying value of cash
and due from banks approximate fair value and are classified within Level 1. Fair value is provided for disclosure purposes only.     Federal Funds Sold and
Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements    The carrying value of federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements approximate fair value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the
instrument and its expected realization and are classified within Level 2. Fair value is provided for disclosure purposes only.     Investment
Securities    When quoted market prices for identical securities are available in an active market, these prices are used to determine fair value and these securities are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Level 1 investment securities include U.S. Treasury and exchange-traded securities.    For other securities, quoted market prices may not be
readily available for the specific securities. When possible, the Company determines fair value based on market observable information, including quoted market prices for similar securities, inactive

transaction prices, and broker quotes. These securities are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Level 2 valuations are generally provided by a third party pricing
service. The Company reviews the valuation methodologies utilized by the pricing service and, on a quarterly basis, reviews the security level prices provided by the pricing service against management s expectation of fair value, based on
changes in various benchmarks and market knowledge from recent trading activity. Additionally, each quarter, the Company validates the fair value provided by the pricing services by comparing them to recent observable market trades (where
available), broker provided quotes, or other independent secondary pricing sources. Prices obtained from the pricing service are adjusted if they are found to be inconsistent with relevant market data. Level 2 investment securities are
predominantly agency mortgage-backed securities, certain other asset-backed securities, obligations of state and political subdivisions and agency debt securities.  
 The fair value of securities for which there are no market trades, or where trading is inactive as compared to normal market activity, are classified
within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company determines the fair value of these securities by using a discounted cash flow methodology and incorporating observable market information, where available. These valuations are modeled by
a unit within the Company s treasury department. The valuations use assumptions regarding housing prices, interest rates and borrower performance. Inputs are refined and updated at least quarterly to reflect market developments and actual
performance. The primary valuation drivers of these securities are the prepayment rates, default rates and default severities associated with the underlying collateral, as well as the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the
projected cash flows. Level 3 fair values, including the assumptions used, are subject to review by senior management in corporate functions, who are independent from the modeling. The fair value measurements are also compared to fair values
provided by third party pricing services and broker provided quotes, where available. Securities classified within Level 3 include  non-agency  mortgage-backed securities,
 non-agency  commercial mortgage-backed securities, certain asset-backed securities and certain corporate debt securities. At December 31, 2017, the Company did not have any
  available-for-sale   investment securities classified within Level 3.  
  Mortgage Loans Held For Sale    MLHFS measured at fair value, for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist, are
initially valued at the transaction price and are subsequently valued by comparison to instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles. MLHFS are classified within Level 2. The valuations of MLHFS are developed by the mortgage banking
division and are subject to independent price verification procedures by corporate functions. Included in mortgage banking revenue were net gains of $84 million, $33 million and $27 million for the years ended December 31, 2017,
2016 and 2015, respectively, from the changes to fair value of these MLHFS under fair value option accounting guidance. Changes in fair value due to instrument specific credit risk were immaterial. Interest

Table of Contents  

income for MLHFS is measured based on contractual interest rates and reported as interest income on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Electing to measure MLHFS at fair value reduces certain
timing differences and better matches changes in fair value of these assets with changes in the value of the derivative instruments used to economically hedge them without the burden of complying with the requirements for hedge accounting.  
  Loans    The loan portfolio includes adjustable and fixed-rate loans, the fair value of which is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and other
valuation techniques. The expected cash flows of loans consider historical prepayment experiences and estimated credit losses and are discounted using current rates offered to borrowers with similar credit characteristics. Generally, loan fair
values reflect Level 3 information. Fair value is provided for disclosure purposes only, with the exception of impaired collateral-based loans that are measured at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis
utilizing the underlying collateral fair value.     Mortgage Servicing Rights    MSRs are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology, and are
classified within Level 3. The Company determines fair value of the MSRs by projecting future cash flows for different interest rate scenarios using prepayment rates and other assumptions, and discounts these cash flows using a risk adjusted
rate based on option adjusted spread levels. The MSR valuations, as well as the assumptions used, are developed by the mortgage banking division and are subject to review by senior management in corporate functions, who are independent from the
modeling. The MSR valuations and assumptions are validated through comparison to trade information when available, publicly available data and industry surveys and are also compared to independent third party valuations each quarter. Risks inherent
in MSR valuation include higher than expected prepayment rates and/or delayed receipt of cash flows. There is minimal observable market activity for MSRs on comparable portfolios and, therefore, the determination of fair value requires significant
management judgment. Refer to Note 9 for further information on MSR valuation assumptions.     Derivatives  The majority of derivatives held by the Company are
executed   over-the-counter   or centrally cleared through clearinghouses and are valued using standard cash flow, Black-Derman-Toy and Monte Carlo valuation techniques. The
models incorporate inputs, depending on the type of derivative, including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates and volatility. The inputs into these models are subject to independent review by corporate functions. Additionally, the
Company s valuations are compared to counterparty valuations, where available. All derivative values incorporate an assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance, measured based on the Company s evaluation of credit risk as well as
external assessments of credit risk, where available. The Company monitors and manages its nonperformance risk by considering its ability to net derivative positions under master netting arrangements, as well as collateral received or provided under

collateral arrangements. Accordingly, the Company has elected to measure the fair value of derivatives, at a counterparty level, on a net basis. The majority of the derivatives are classified
within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as the significant inputs to the models, including nonperformance risk, are observable. However, certain derivative transactions are with counterparties where risk of nonperformance cannot be observed
in the market and, therefore, the credit valuation adjustments result in these derivatives being classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The credit valuation adjustments for nonperformance risk are determined by the
Company s treasury department using credit assumptions provided by the risk management department. The credit assumptions are compared to actual results quarterly and are recalibrated as appropriate.  
 The Company also has other derivative contracts that are created through its operations, including commitments to purchase and originate mortgage
loans and swap agreements executed in conjunction with the sale of a portion of its Class B common shares of Visa Inc. (the  Visa swaps ). The mortgage loan commitments are valued by pricing models that include market observable and
unobservable inputs, which result in the commitments being classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The unobservable inputs include assumptions about the percentage of commitments that actually become a closed loan and the MSR
value that is inherent in the underlying loan value, both of which are developed by the Company s mortgage banking division. The closed loan percentages for the mortgage loan commitments are monitored on an
 on-going  basis, as these percentages are also used for the Company s economic hedging activities. The inherent MSR value for the commitments are generated by the same models used for the Company s
MSRs and thus are subject to the same processes and controls as described for the MSRs above. The Visa swaps require payments by either the Company or the purchaser of the Visa Inc. Class B common shares when there are changes in the conversion
rate of the Visa Inc. Class B common shares to Visa Inc. Class A common shares, as well as quarterly payments to the purchaser based on specified terms of the agreements. Management reviews and updates the Visa swaps fair value in
conjunction with its review of Visa Inc. related litigation contingencies, and the associated escrow funding. The fair value of the Visa swaps are calculated by the Company s corporate development department using a discounted cash flow
methodology which includes unobservable inputs about the timing and settlement amounts related to the resolution of certain Visa Inc. related litigation. The expected litigation resolution impacts the Visa Inc. Class B common share to Visa Inc.
Class A common share conversion rate, as well as the ultimate termination date for the Visa swaps. Accordingly, the Visa swaps are classified within Level 3. Refer to Note 22 for further information on the Visa Inc. restructuring and
related card association litigation.     Other Financial Instruments  Other financial instruments include cost method equity investments and certain community
development and  tax-advantaged  related assets and liabilities. The majority of the Company s cost method equity investments

Table of Contents  

are in Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock, for which the carrying amounts approximate fair value and are classified within Level 2. Investments in other equity and limited
partnership funds are estimated using fund provided net asset values. These equity investments are classified within Level 3. The community development and  tax-advantaged  related asset balances primarily
represent the underlying assets of consolidated community development and  tax-advantaged  entities. The community development and  tax-advantaged  related liabilities
represent the underlying liabilities of the consolidated entities (included in long-term debt) and liabilities related to other third party interests (included in other liabilities). The carrying value of the community development and  tax-advantaged  related asset and other liability balances are a reasonable estimate of fair value and are classified within Level 3. Refer to Note 7 for further information on community development and  tax-advantaged  related assets and liabilities. Fair value is provided for disclosure purposes only.     Deposit
Liabilities  The fair value of demand deposits, savings accounts and certain money market deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand. The fair value of fixed-rate certificates of deposit is estimated by discounting the contractual
cash flow using current market rates. Deposit liabilities are classified within Level 2. Fair value is provided for disclosure purposes only.     Short-term
Borrowings    Federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term funds borrowed have floating rates or short-term maturities. The fair value of short-term borrowings is
determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates. Short-term borrowings are classified within Level 2. Included in short-term borrowings is the Company s obligation on securities sold short, which is required to
be accounted for at fair value per applicable accounting guidance. Fair value for other short-term borrowings is provided for disclosure purposes only.  
  Long-term Debt    The fair value for most long-term debt is determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates. Long-term debt
is classified within Level 2. Fair value is provided for disclosure purposes only.     Loan Commitments, Letters of Credit and Guarantees    The
fair value of commitments, letters of credit and guarantees represents the estimated costs to terminate or otherwise settle the obligations with a third party. Other loan commitments, letters of credit and guarantees are not actively traded, and the
Company estimates their fair value based on the related amount of unamortized deferred commitment fees adjusted for the probable losses for these arrangements. These arrangements are classified within Level 3. Fair value is provided for
disclosure purposes only.  
 
   Significant Unobservable Inputs of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities   
 The following section provides information on the significant inputs used by the Company to determine the fair value measurements of Level 3 assets and liabilities
recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, the following section includes a discussion of the sensitivity of the fair value measurements to changes in the significant inputs and a description of any interrelationships
between these inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The discussion below excludes nonrecurring fair value measurements of collateral value used for impairment measures for loans and OREO. These
valuations utilize third party appraisal or broker price opinions, and are classified as Level 3 due to the significant judgment involved.       Available-For-Sale   Investment Securities  The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Company s modeled Level 3   available-for-sale   investment securities are prepayment rates, probability of default and loss severities associated with the underlying collateral, as well as the discount
margin used to calculate the present value of the projected cash flows. Increases in prepayment rates for Level 3 securities will typically result in higher fair values, as increased prepayment rates accelerate the receipt of expected cash
flows and reduce exposure to credit losses. Increases in the probability of default and loss severities will result in lower fair values, as these increases reduce expected cash flows. Discount margin is the Company s estimate of the current
market spread above the respective benchmark rate. Higher discount margin will result in lower fair values, as it reduces the present value of the expected cash flows.  
 Prepayment rates generally move in the opposite direction of market interest rates. In the current environment, an increase in the probability of
default will generally be accompanied with an increase in loss severity, as both are impacted by underlying collateral values. Discount margins are influenced by market expectations about the security s collateral performance and, therefore,
may directionally move with probability and severity of default; however, discount margins are also impacted by broader market forces, such as competing investment yields, sector liquidity, economic news, and other macroeconomic factors. At
December 31, 2017, the Company did not have any   available-for-sale   investment securities classified within Level 3.  
  Mortgage Servicing Rights  The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Company s MSRs are expected prepayments and the
option adjusted spread that is added to the risk-free rate to discount projected cash flows. Significant increases in either of these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly lower fair value measurement. Significant decreases in either
of these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly higher fair value measurement. There is no direct interrelationship between prepayments and option adjusted spread. Prepayment rates generally move in the opposite direction of market
interest rates. Option adjusted spread is generally impacted by changes in market return requirements.  

Table of Contents  

The following table shows the significant valuation assumption ranges for MSRs at December 31, 2017:  

Derivatives  The Company has two distinct Level 3 derivative portfolios: (i) the Company s
commitments to purchase and originate mortgage loans that meet the requirements of a derivative and (ii) the Company s asset/liability and customer-related derivatives that are Level 3 due to unobservable inputs related to measurement
of risk of nonperformance by the counterparty. In addition, the Company s Visa swaps are classified within Level 3.    The significant
unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Company s derivative commitments to

purchase and originate mortgage loans are the percentage of commitments that actually become a closed loan and the MSR value that is inherent in the underlying loan value. A significant increase
in the rate of loans that close would result in a larger derivative asset or liability. A significant increase in the inherent MSR value would result in an increase in the derivative asset or a reduction in the derivative liability. Expected loan
close rates and the inherent MSR values are directly impacted by changes in market rates and will generally move in the same direction as interest rates.

The following table shows the significant valuation
assumption ranges for the Company s derivative commitments to purchase and originate mortgage loans at December 31, 2017:      

The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of certain of the Company s
asset/liability and customer-related derivatives is the credit valuation adjustment related to the risk of counterparty nonperformance. A significant increase in the credit valuation adjustment would result in a lower fair value measurement. A
significant decrease in the credit valuation adjustment would result in a higher fair value measurement. The credit valuation adjustment is impacted by changes in the Company s assessment of the counterparty s credit position. At
December 31, 2017, the minimum, maximum and average credit valuation adjustment as a percentage of the

derivative contract fair value prior to adjustment was 0 percent, 98 percent and 2 percent, respectively.  
 The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Visa swaps are management s estimate of the probability of certain
litigation scenarios, and the timing of the resolution of the related litigation loss estimates in excess, or shortfall, of the Company s proportional share of escrow funds. An increase in the loss estimate or a delay in the resolution of the
related litigation would result in an increase in the derivative liability. A decrease in the loss estimate or an acceleration of the resolution of the related litigation would result in a decrease in the derivative liability.

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:

(a)  
  Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer at origination. When an issuer designation is unavailable, the Company determines at acquisition date the categorization based on asset pool characteristics
(such as weighted-average credit score,   loan-to-value,   loan type, prevalence of low documentation loans) and deal performance (such as pool delinquencies and security
market spreads).     

(b)  
  Includes all securities not meeting the conditions to be designated as prime.     

(c)  
  Primarily represents the Company s obligation on securities sold short required to be accounted for at fair value per applicable accounting guidance.     

Table of Contents  

The following table presents the changes in fair value for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended December 31:      

(a)  
  Prime securities are those designated as such by the issuer at origination. When an issuer designation is unavailable, the Company determines at acquisition date the categorization based on asset pool characteristics
(such as weighted-average credit score,   loan-to-value,   loan type, prevalence of low documentation loans) and deal performance (such as pool delinquencies and security
market spreads).     

(b)  
  Includes all securities not meeting the conditions to be designated as prime.     

(c)  
  Included in mortgage banking revenue.     

(d)  
  Approximately $21 million included in other noninterest income and $296 million included in mortgage banking revenue.     

(e)  
  Included in changes in unrealized gains and losses on securities   available-for-sale.       

(f)  
  Represents MSRs capitalized during the period.     

(g)  
  Approximately $(77) million included in other noninterest income and $25 million included in mortgage banking revenue.     

(h)  
  Approximately $(3) million included in securities gains (losses) and $1 million included in interest income.     

(i)  
  Approximately $(77) million included in other noninterest income and $409 million included in mortgage banking revenue.     

(j)  
  Approximately $(276) million included in other noninterest income and $19 million included in mortgage banking revenue.     

(k)  
  Included in interest income.     

(l)  
  Approximately $289 million included in other noninterest income and $418 million included in mortgage banking revenue.     

(m)  
  Approximately $92 million included in other noninterest income and $43 million included in mortgage banking revenue.     

Table of Contents  

The Company is also required periodically to measure certain other financial assets at fair value on
a nonrecurring basis. These measurements of fair value usually result from the application of
    lower-of-cost-or-fair     value accounting or write-downs of individual assets.  
 The following table summarizes the balances as of the measurement date of assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, and still held as of December 31:  

(a)  
  Represents the carrying value of loans for which adjustments were based on the fair value of the collateral, excluding loans fully  charged-off.      

(b)  
  Primarily represents the fair value of foreclosed properties that were measured at fair value based on an appraisal or broker price opinion of the collateral subsequent to their initial acquisition.
      The following table summarizes losses recognized related to nonrecurring fair value measurements of individual assets or portfolios for the years
ended December 31:      

(a)  
  Represents write-downs of student loans held for sale based on  non-binding  quoted prices received for the portfolio that were subsequently transferred to loans, and write-downs
of loans which were based on the fair value of the collateral, excluding loans fully  charged-off.      

(b)  
  Primarily represents related losses of foreclosed properties that were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial acquisition.     
  Fair Value Option     The following table summarizes the differences between
the aggregate fair value carrying amount of MLHFS for which the fair value option has been elected and the aggregate unpaid principal amount that the Company is contractually obligated to receive at maturity as of December 31:  

Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments   
 The following table summarizes the estimated fair value for financial instruments as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and includes financial instruments that are not
accounted for at fair value. In accordance with disclosure guidance related to fair values of financial instruments, the Company did not include

assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments, such as the value of goodwill, long-term relationships with deposit, credit card, merchant processing and trust customers, other
purchased intangibles, premises and equipment, deferred taxes and other liabilities. Additionally, in accordance with the disclosure guidance, insurance contracts and investments accounted for under the equity method are excluded.

Table of Contents  

The estimated fair values of the Company s financial instruments as of December 31, are shown in the table
below:      

(a)  
  Excludes mortgages held for sale for which the fair value option under applicable accounting guidance was elected.     

(b)  
  Excludes the Company s obligation on securities sold short required to be accounted for at fair value per applicable accounting guidance.     
    
  The fair value of unfunded commitments, deferred  non-yield  related loan fees,
standby letters of credit and other guarantees is approximately equal to their carrying value. The carrying value of unfunded commitments, deferred  non-yield  related loan fees and

standby letters of credit was $555 million and $618 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The carrying value of other guarantees was $192 million and
$186 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

NOTE 22   

Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities  

Visa Restructuring and Card Association Litigation    The Company s payment services business issues
credit and debit cards and acquires credit and debit card transactions through the Visa U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates (collectively  Visa ). In 2007, Visa completed a restructuring and issued shares of Visa Inc. common
stock to its financial institution members in contemplation of its initial public offering ( IPO ) completed in the first quarter of 2008 (the  Visa Reorganization ). As a part of the Visa Reorganization, the Company received its
proportionate number of shares of Visa Inc. common stock, which were subsequently converted to Class B shares of Visa Inc. ( Class B shares ). Visa U.S.A. Inc. ( Visa U.S.A. ) and MasterCard International (collectively,
the  Card Associations ) are defendants in antitrust lawsuits challenging the practices of the Card Associations (the  Visa Litigation ). Visa U.S.A. member banks have a contingent obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. under the Visa
U.S.A. bylaws (which were modified at the time of the restructuring in October 2007) for potential losses arising from the Visa Litigation. The indemnification by the Visa U.S.A. member banks has no specific maximum amount.  
 Using proceeds from its IPO and through reductions to the conversion ratio applicable to the Class B shares held by Visa U.S.A. member banks,
Visa Inc. has funded an escrow account for the benefit of member financial institutions to fund their indemnification obligations associated with the Visa Litigation. The receivable related to the escrow account is classified in other liabilities as
a direct offset to the related Visa Litigation contingent

liability. On October 19, 2012, Visa signed a settlement agreement to resolve class action claims associated with the multi-district interchange litigation pending in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This case is the largest of the remaining Visa Litigation matters. The district court approved the settlement, but that approval was appealed by certain class members. On June 30, 2016, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the approval of the settlement and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings consistent with the appellate ruling. On November 23, 2016, certain class members
filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court asking it to review the Second Circuit s decision to reject the settlement. On March 27, 2017, the Supreme Court denied the class members  petition. The case is proceeding in the
district court.    At December 31, 2017, the carrying amount of the Company s liability related to the Visa Litigation matters, net of its
share of the escrow fundings, was $19 million. During 2017, the Company sold 2.2 million of its Class B shares. These sales, and any previous sales of its Class B shares, do not impact the Company s liability for the Visa
Litigation matters or the receivable related to the escrow account. Upon final settlement of the Visa Litigation, the remaining 2.7 million Class B shares held by the Company will be eligible for conversion to Class A shares of Visa
Inc., which are publicly traded. The Class B shares are excluded from the Company s financial instruments disclosures included in Note 21.

Table of Contents  

Commitments to Extend Credit  Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally have fixed expiration
dates or other termination clauses. The contractual amount represents the Company s exposure to credit loss, in the event of default by the borrower. The Company manages this credit risk by using the same credit policies it applies to loans.
Collateral is obtained to secure commitments based on management s credit assessment of the borrower. The collateral may include marketable securities, receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the Company expects many of the
commitments to expire without being drawn, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent the Company s future liquidity requirements. In addition, the commitments include consumer credit lines that are cancelable upon notification to
the consumer.    The contract or notional amounts of unfunded commitments to extend credit at December 31, 2017, excluding those commitments considered
derivatives, were as follows:      

(a)  
  Primarily cancelable at the Company s discretion.        Lease Commitments  Rental expense for operating
leases totaled $338 million in 2017, $326 million in 2016 and $328 million in 2015. Future minimum payments, net of sublease rentals, under capitalized leases and noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one
year or more, consisted of the following at December 31, 2017:      

Other Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities   
 The following table is a summary of other guarantees and contingent liabilities of the Company at December 31, 2017:  
   
    Letters of Credit    Standby letters of credit are commitments the Company issues to guarantee the performance of a customer
to a third party. The guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper issuances, bond financings and other similar transactions. The Company also issues and confirms commercial letters of credit on
behalf of customers to ensure payment or collection in connection with trade transactions. In the event of a customer s or counterparty s nonperformance, the Company s credit loss exposure is similar to that in any extension of
credit, up to the letter s contractual amount. Management assesses the borrower s credit to determine the necessary collateral, which may include marketable securities, receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
conditions requiring the Company to fund letters of credit may not occur, the Company expects its liquidity requirements to be less than the total outstanding commitments. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under standby
letter of credit arrangements at December 31, 2017, were approximately $10.9 billion with a weighted-average term of approximately 20 months. The estimated fair value of standby letters of credit was approximately $52 million at
December 31, 2017.    The contract or notional amount of letters of credit at December 31, 2017, were as follows:  

Table of Contents  

Guarantees     Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company to customers or other third
parties. The Company s guarantees primarily include parent guarantees related to subsidiaries  third party borrowing arrangements; third party performance guarantees inherent in the Company s business operations, such as indemnified
securities lending programs and merchant charge-back guarantees; and indemnification or  buy-back  provisions related to certain asset sales. For certain guarantees, the Company has recorded a liability related
to the potential obligation, or has access to collateral to support the guarantee or through the exercise of other recourse provisions can offset some or all of the maximum potential future payments made under these guarantees.  
   Third Party Borrowing Arrangements     The Company provides guarantees to third parties as a part of certain subsidiaries  borrowing arrangements.
The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately $7 million at December 31, 2017.  
   Commitments from Securities Lending     The Company participates in securities lending activities by acting as the customer s agent involving the
loan of securities. The Company indemnifies customers for the difference between the fair value of the securities lent and the fair value of the collateral received. Cash collateralizes these transactions. The maximum potential future payments
guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately $2.8 billion at December 31, 2017, and represent the fair value of the securities lent to third parties. At December 31, 2017, the Company held $2.9 billion of
cash as collateral for these arrangements.      Asset Sales     The Company has provided guarantees to certain third parties in connection with the
sale or syndication of certain assets, primarily loan portfolios and  tax-advantaged  investments. These guarantees are generally in the form of asset  buy-back  or
make-whole provisions that are triggered upon a credit event or a change in the  tax-qualifying  status of the related projects, as applicable, and remain in effect until the loans are collected or final tax
credits are realized, respectively. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately $6.7 billion at December 31, 2017, and represented the proceeds received from the buyer or the
guaranteed portion in these transactions where the  buy-back  or make-whole provisions have not yet expired. At December 31, 2017, the Company had reserved $112 million for potential losses related to
the sale or syndication of  tax-advantaged  investments.    The maximum potential future payments do not
include loan sales where the Company provides standard representation and warranties to the buyer against losses related to loan underwriting documentation defects that may have existed at the time of sale that generally are identified after the
occurrence of a triggering event such as delinquency. For these types of loan sales, the maximum potential future payments is generally the unpaid principal balance of loans sold measured at the end of the current reporting period. Actual losses
will be significantly less than the maximum exposure, as only a fraction of loans sold will have a

representation and warranty breach, and any losses on repurchase would generally be mitigated by any collateral held against the loans.  
 The Company regularly sells loans to GSEs as part of its mortgage banking activities. The Company provides customary representations and warranties to
GSEs in conjunction with these sales. These representations and warranties generally require the Company to repurchase assets if it is subsequently determined that a loan did not meet specified criteria, such as a documentation deficiency or
rescission of mortgage insurance. If the Company is unable to cure or refute a repurchase request, the Company is generally obligated to repurchase the loan or otherwise reimburse the counterparty for losses. At December 31, 2017, the Company
had reserved $13 million for potential losses from representation and warranty obligations, compared with $19 million at December 31, 2016. The Company s reserve reflects management s best estimate of losses for
representation and warranty obligations. The Company s repurchase reserve is modeled at the loan level, taking into consideration the individual credit quality and borrower activity that has transpired since origination. The model applies
credit quality and economic risk factors to derive a probability of default and potential repurchase that are based on the Company s historical loss experience, and estimates loss severity based on expected collateral value. The Company also
considers qualitative factors that may result in anticipated losses differing from historical loss trends.    As of December 31, 2017 and 2016,
the Company had $9 million and $7 million, respectively, of unresolved representation and warranty claims from GSEs. The Company does not have a significant amount of unresolved claims from investors other than GSEs.  
   Merchant Processing     The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides merchant processing services. Under the rules of credit card associations,
a merchant processor retains a contingent liability for credit card transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in the event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s
favor. In this situation, the transaction is  charged-back  to the merchant and the disputed amount is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If the Company is unable to collect this amount from the merchant, it bears the loss
for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder.    A cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until the later of up to four months
after the date the transaction is processed or the receipt of the product or service to present a charge-back to the Company as the merchant processor. The absolute maximum potential liability is estimated to be the total volume of credit card
transactions that meet the associations  requirements to be valid charge-back transactions at any given time. Management estimates that the maximum potential exposure for charge-backs would approximate the total amount of merchant transactions
processed through the credit card associations for the last four months. For the last four months this amount totaled approximately $95.8 billion. In most cases, this

Table of Contents  

contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most products and services are delivered when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned to merchants. However, where the product or
service has been purchased but is not provided until a future date ( future delivery ), the potential for this contingent liability increases. To mitigate this risk, the Company may require the merchant to make an escrow deposit, place
maximum volume limitations on future delivery transactions processed by the merchant at any point in time, or require various credit enhancements (including letters of credit and bank guarantees). Also, merchant processing contracts may include
event triggers to provide the Company more financial and operational control in the event of financial deterioration of the merchant.    The Company
currently processes card transactions in the United States, Canada, Europe and Mexico through wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures with other financial institutions. In the event a merchant was unable to fulfill product or services subject
to future delivery, such as airline tickets, the Company could become financially liable for refunding the purchase price of such products or services purchased through the credit card associations under the charge-back provisions. Charge-back risk
related to these merchants is evaluated in a manner similar to credit risk assessments and, as such, merchant processing contracts contain various provisions to protect the Company in the event of default. At December 31, 2017, the value of
airline tickets purchased to be delivered at a future date through card transactions processed by the Company was $6.6 billion. The Company held collateral of $378 million in escrow deposits, letters of credit and indemnities from
financial institutions, and liens on various assets. With respect to future delivery risk for other merchants, the Company held $3 million of merchant escrow deposits as collateral. In addition to specific collateral or other credit
enhancements, the Company maintains a liability for its implied guarantees associated with future delivery. At December 31, 2017, the liability was $37 million primarily related to these airline processing arrangements.  
 In the normal course of business, the Company has unresolved charge-backs. The Company assesses the likelihood of its potential liability based on the
extent and nature of unresolved charge-backs and its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2017, the Company held $100 million of merchant escrow deposits as collateral and had a recorded liability for potential losses of
$13 million.      Tender Option Bond Program Guarantee     As discussed in Note 7, the Company sponsors a municipal bond securities tender option
bond program and consolidates the program s entities on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company provides financial performance guarantees related to the program s entities. At December 31, 2017, the Company guaranteed
$2.3 billion of borrowings of the program s entities, included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in short-term borrowings. The Company also included on its Consolidated Balance Sheet the related $2.5 billion of   available-for-sale   investment securities serving as collateral for this arrangement.

Minimum Revenue Guarantees     In the normal course of business, the Company may enter into revenue
share agreements with third party business partners who generate customer referrals or provide marketing or other services related to the generation of revenue. In certain of these agreements, the Company may guarantee that a minimum amount of
revenue share payments will be made to the third party over a specified period of time. At December 31, 2017, the maximum potential future payments required to be made by the Company under these agreements were $7 million.  
   Other Guarantees and Commitments     As of December 31, 2017, the Company sponsored, and owned 100 percent of the common equity of, USB
Capital IX, a wholly-owned unconsolidated trust, formed for the purpose of issuing redeemable Income Trust Securities ( ITS ) to third party investors, originally investing the proceeds in junior subordinated debt securities
( Debentures ) issued by the Company and entering into stock purchase contracts to purchase the Company s preferred stock in the future. As of December 31, 2017, all of the Debentures issued by the Company have either matured or
been retired. Total assets of USB Capital IX were $682 million at December 31, 2017, consisting primarily of the Company s Series A Preferred Stock. The Company s obligations under the transaction documents, taken together, have
the effect of providing a full and unconditional guarantee by the Company, on a junior subordinated basis, of the payment obligations of the trust to third party investors totaling $681 million at December 31, 2017.  
 The Company has also made other financial performance guarantees and commitments primarily related to the operations of its subsidiaries. At
December 31, 2017, the maximum potential future payments guaranteed or committed by the Company under these arrangements were approximately $609 million.  
  Litigation and Regulatory Matters  The Company is subject to various litigation and regulatory matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. The
Company establishes reserves for such matters when potential losses become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes the ultimate resolution of existing legal and regulatory matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. However, in light of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of one or more of these matters may have a material adverse effect
on the Company s results from operations for a particular period, and future changes in circumstances or additional information could result in additional accruals or resolution in excess of established accruals, which could adversely affect
the Company s results from operations, potentially materially.      Litigation Matters   In the last several years, the Company and other large
financial institutions have been sued in their capacity as trustee for residential mortgage backed securities trusts. Among these lawsuits are actions originally brought in June 2014 by a group of institutional investors, including
BlackRock and  

Table of Contents  

PIMCO funds, against six bank trustees, including the Company. The actions brought by these institutional investors against the Company currently are pending in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York, New York County, and in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In these lawsuits, the investors allege that the Company s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association ( U.S.
Bank ), as trustee caused them to incur substantial losses by failing to enforce loan repurchase obligations and failing to abide by appropriate standards of care after events of default allegedly occurred. The plaintiffs seek monetary damages
in an unspecified amount and also seek equitable relief.      Regulatory Matters   The Company is continually subject to examinations, inquiries and
investigations in areas of increasing regulatory scrutiny, such as compliance, risk management, third party risk management and consumer protection. In addition, the Company is currently subject to examinations, inquiries and investigations by
government agencies and bank regulators concerning mortgage-related practices, including those related to foreclosure-related expenses submitted to the Federal Housing Administration or GSEs for reimbursement, lender-placed insurance, and notices
and filings in bankruptcy cases.    The Company is cooperating fully with all pending examinations, inquiries and investigations, any of which could
lead to administrative or legal proceedings or settlements. Remedies in these proceedings or settlements may include fines, penalties, restitution or alterations in the Company s business practices (which may increase the Company s
operating expenses and decrease its revenue).    On February 13, 2018, the Company entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the
 DPA ) with the United States Attorney s Office in Manhattan that resolves its investigation of the Company concerning a legacy banking relationship between U.S. Bank and payday lending businesses associated with former customer Scott
Tucker and U.S. Bank s legacy Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program. Under the terms of the DPA, the Company settled all allegations with the United States Attorney s Office for the sum of $528 million (which is
being credited for the amount of the civil money penalty paid to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ), as described below for a net payment to the U.S. Attorney s Office of $453 million) and agreed to, among
other things, continue its ongoing efforts to implement and maintain an adequate Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money-laundering compliance program and to provide related reports to the U.S. Attorney s Office. The DPA defers prosecution for a period of
two years, subject to the Company s compliance with its terms. If the Company violates the DPA, its term could be extended up to an additional one year, or the Company could be subject to a prosecution or civil action based on the matters that
are the subject of the DPA.    In addition, the Company and certain of its affiliates entered into related regulatory settlements with the OCC, the
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) and the Board of

Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( Federal Reserve ). U.S. Bank consented to the issuance of a consent order and entered into a stipulation and consent to the issuance of an
order for a civil money penalty with the OCC, and was assessed a civil money penalty of $75 million by the OCC, resulting from the OCC s 2015 Consent Order (as described below) and related review of the Company s legacy Bank Secrecy
Act/anti-money laundering compliance program. U.S. Bank also entered into a related stipulation and order of dismissal with FinCEN, which requires, among other things, an ongoing commitment to provide resources to its Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money
laundering compliance program and related reporting to FinCEN and provides for payment of a civil money penalty of $185 million (which will be deemed satisfied if the Company pays the penalty required under the DPA and also pays
$70 million to FinCEN). In addition, the Company and USB Americas Holding Company, a subsidiary of U.S. Bank, entered into a consent order to cease and desist and order of assessment of a civil money penalty with the Federal Reserve concerning
deficiencies in the Company s firm-wide Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program and sanctions compliance program, which requires the payment of a civil money penalty of $15 million and, among other things, enhancements
related to those programs.    The Company has paid a total of $613 million for the penalties described above. The Company had previously
accrued amounts to cover each of these matters, which were reflected in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2017.  
 In October 2015, the Company entered into a Consent Order with the OCC concerning deficiencies in the Company s Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money
laundering compliance program, and requiring an ongoing review of that program. Some of the compliance program enhancements and other actions required by the Consent Order have already been, or are currently in the process of being, implemented, and
are not expected to be material to the Company.    In April 2011, the Company and certain other large financial institutions entered into
Consent Orders with the OCC and the Federal Reserve relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. In June 2015, the Company entered into an agreement to amend the 2011 Consent Order it had with the OCC. The OCC
terminated the amended Consent Order in February 2016. The Federal Reserve terminated its 2011 Consent Order in January 2018.      Outlook     Due
to their complex nature, it can be years before litigation and regulatory matters are resolved. The Company may be unable to develop an estimate or range of loss where matters are in early stages, there are significant factual or legal issues to be
resolved, damages are unspecified or uncertain, or there is uncertainty as to a litigation class being certified or the outcome of pending motions, appeals or proceedings. For those litigation and regulatory matters where the Company has information
to develop an estimate or range of loss, the Company believes the upper end of the range of reasonably possible losses in

Table of Contents  

aggregate, in excess of any reserves established for matters where a loss is considered probable, will not be material to its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The
Company s estimates are subject to significant judgment and

uncertainties, and the matters underlying the estimates will change from time to time. Actual results may vary significantly from the current estimates.

NOTE 23   

U.S. Bancorp (Parent Company)  
    Condensed Balance Sheet       
    Condensed Income Statement       

Table of Contents  

Condensed Statement of Cash Flows       

Transfer of funds (dividends, loans or advances) from bank subsidiaries to the Company is restricted.
Federal law requires loans to the Company or its affiliates to be secured and generally limits loans to the Company or an individual affiliate to 10 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital and surplus. In the aggregate, loans to the
Company and all affiliates cannot exceed 20 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital and surplus.

Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary bank are subject to regulatory review and statutory
limitations and, in some instances, regulatory approval. In general, dividends by the Company s bank subsidiary to the parent company are limited by rules which compare dividends to net income for regulatorily-defined periods. Furthermore,
dividends are restricted by minimum capital constraints for all national banks.  

NOTE 24   

Subsequent Events  

The Company has evaluated the impact of events that have occurred subsequent to December 31, 2017 through the date
the consolidated financial statements were filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Based on this

evaluation, the Company has determined none of these events were required to be recognized or disclosed in the consolidated financial statements and related notes.

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp   
  Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five Year Summary (Unaudited)       

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp   
  Consolidated Statement of Income   Five-Year Summary (Unaudited)       

*  
  Not meaningful     

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp      Quarterly
Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)       

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp   
  Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)       

(a)  
  Defined as total common shares less common stock held in treasury at December 31.     

(b)  
  Based on number of common stock shareholders of record at December 31.        Stock Price Range and Dividends
      
   The common stock of U.S. Bancorp is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, under the ticker symbol  USB.  At January 31,
2018, there were 36,705 holders of record of the Company s common stock.     Stock Performance Chart   
 The following chart compares the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company s common stock during the five years ended December 31, 2017, with the
cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor s 500 Index and the KBW Bank Index. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2012, in the Company s common stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes
the reinvestment of all dividends. The comparisons in the graph are based upon historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of the Company s common stock.  

Table of Contents  

U.S. Bancorp   
  Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates (a)  (Unaudited)   

*  
  Not meaningful     

(a)  
  Interest and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent for the periods presented.     

(b)  
  Interest income and rates on loans include loan fees. Nonaccrual loans are included in average loan balances.     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Company Information   
    
   General Business Description  U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in
Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Company provides a full range of financial services,
including lending and depository services, cash management, capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.  
 U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National Association, is engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic markets.
U.S. Bank National Association, with $357 billion in deposits at December 31, 2017, provides a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial
institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are principally offered to customers within the Company s domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to large national customers operating in specific industries
targeted by the Company. Lending services include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other products. Depository services include
checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management and receivable  lock-box  collection are provided to corporate customers.
U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations.  
 Other U.S. Bancorp  non-banking  subsidiaries offer investment and insurance products to the Company s
customers principally within its markets, and fund administration services to a broad range of mutual and other funds.    Banking and investment
services are provided through a network of 3,067 banking offices principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the United States, through  on-line  services and over mobile devices. The Company
operates a network of 4,771 ATMs and provides  24-hour,  seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices and loan production offices throughout the
Company s markets. Lending products may be originated through banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of corporate and purchasing card services and corporate
trust services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing services directly to merchants and through a network of banking affiliations. Wholly-owned subsidiaries, and affiliates
of Elavon, provide similar merchant services in Canada, Mexico and segments of Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust

and fund administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to the Company.  
 On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2017, U.S. Bancorp employed 72,402 people.  
  Risk Factors  An investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall substantially and that dividends
or other distributions on the investment could be reduced or eliminated. Below are risk factors that could adversely affect the Company s financial results and condition and the value of, and return on, an investment in the Company.  
  Regulatory and Legal Risk      The Company is subject to extensive and
evolving government regulation and supervision, which can increase the cost of doing business, limit the Company s ability to make investments and generate revenue, and lead to costly enforcement actions  Banking regulations are primarily
intended to protect depositors  funds, the federal Deposit Insurance Fund, and the United States financial system as a whole, and not the Company s debt holders or shareholders. These regulations, and the Company s inability to act in
certain instances without receiving prior regulatory approval, affect the Company s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase common stock, and ability to pursue strategic acquisitions,
among other activities.    Federal and state regulation and supervision have increased in recent years due to the implementation of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ) and other financial reform initiatives. The Company expects that there will continue to be significant regulatory activity into 2018 and in future years, as a result of
current and future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability, and enhancement of the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions. New national political leadership has introduced some uncertainty into the
direction and timing of any future regulation, however. While an overall reduction in the regulation of the financial services sector could result in some operational and cost benefits, any potential new regulations or modifications to existing
regulations and supervisory expectations may necessitate changes to the Company s existing regulatory compliance and risk management infrastructure.  
 Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or their interpretation or implementation, and/or the continued heightening of regulatory
practices, requirements or expectations, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. For example, the Guidelines for Heightened Standards of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) and the Federal
Reserve Board s Enhanced Prudential Supervision Rules have required and will continue to require significant Board of Directors oversight and management focus on governance and

Table of Contents  

risk-management activities. The OCC also now requires national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to develop and maintain a recovery plan subject to
regulatory review, which could present new challenges and demands on resources in stressed scenarios.    The financial services industry continues
to face scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and stringent enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices, student lending practices, sales practices and
related incentive compensation programs, and other consumer compliance matters, as well as compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering requirements and sanctions compliance requirements as administered by the Office of Foreign Assets
Control. U.S. Bank National Association entered into a Consent Order with the OCC in October 2015 that concerns deficiencies in its Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program, and requires an ongoing review of that program, and in
February 2018, the OCC issued a related Consent Order for a Civil Money Penalty of $75 million. Also in February 2018, U.S. Bank National Association entered into a related settlement agreement with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
( FinCEN ), which required, among other things, an ongoing commitment to provide resources to its Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program and related reporting to FinCEN, as well as the payment of a civil money penalty of
$70 million to FinCEN, and the Company entered into a related settlement agreement with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ), which required, among other things, enhancements to the
Company s firm-wide Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program and sanctions compliance program and payment of a civil money penalty of $15 million to the Federal Reserve. If the Company or U.S. Bank National Association do
not make satisfactory progress toward addressing the requirements of these regulatory orders, they may be required to enter into further orders and settlements, pay fines or other penalties or further modify their business practices (which may
increase the Company s operating expenses and decrease its revenue).    Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking
regulators and law enforcement. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate
injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Foreign supervisors also have increased
regulatory scrutiny and enforcement in areas related to consumer compliance, money laundering, and information technology systems and controls, among others. Any future enforcement action could have a material adverse impact on the Company.  
 In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of other terms of regulatory
settlements are likely to remain elevated

in the near term. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a
financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. In February 2018, the Company entered into
a deferred prosecution agreement (the  Deferred Prosecution Agreement ) with the U.S. Attorney s Office in Manhattan to resolve an investigation of the Company concerning a legacy banking relationship between U.S. Bank National
Association and payday lending businesses associated with former customer Scott Tucker and U.S. Bank National Association s legacy Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program. If the Company violates the terms of the Deferred
Prosecution Agreement, the term of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement could be extended, or the Company could be subject to a prosecution or civil action based on the matters that are the subject of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, any of which
could result in additional fines, penalties, settlements, payments or restrictions or other materially adverse impacts on the Company s business, reputation or brand. Moreover, the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and the regulatory orders with
the OCC, Federal Reserve and FinCEN discussed above do not preclude additional enforcement actions by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies or private litigation. Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk
management practices also may be incorporated into the Company s confidential supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these ratings, or these or other regulatory actions and settlements can limit the Company s ability to conduct expansionary
activities for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities.  
 Compliance with new regulations and supervisory initiatives may continue to increase the Company s costs. In addition, regulatory changes may
reduce the Company s revenues, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer, alter the investments it makes, affect the manner in which it operates its businesses, increase its litigation and regulatory costs should it fail
to appropriately comply with new or modified laws and regulatory requirements, and increase the ability of  non-banks  to offer competing financial services and products. See  Supervision and
Regulation  in the Company s Annual Report on Form  10-K  for additional information regarding the extensive regulatory framework applicable to the Company.  
  More stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity have been adopted by United States banking regulators that may limit the Company s ability to
return earnings to shareholders or operate or invest in its business  United States banking regulators have adopted more stringent capital- and liquidity-related standards applicable to larger banking organizations, including the Company. The
rules require banks to hold more and higher quality capital as well as sufficient unencumbered liquid assets to meet certain stress scenarios

Table of Contents  

defined by regulation. The implementation of these rules including the common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer, or additional capital- and liquidity-related rules, could require the
Company to take further steps to increase its capital, increase its investment security holdings, divest assets or operations, or otherwise change aspects of its capital and/or liquidity measures, including in ways that may be dilutive to
shareholders or could limit the Company s ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase its common stock, invest in its businesses or provide loans to its customers. See  Supervision and Regulation  in the Company s Annual
Report on Form  10-K  for additional information regarding the capital and liquidity requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III.  
 Additional requirements may be imposed in the future. The Basel Committee has recently finalized a package of revisions to the Basel III framework,
unofficially known as Basel IV. The changes are meant to improve the calculation of risk-weighted assets and the comparability of capital ratios. Federal banking regulators are expected to undertake rule-making action in future years to implement
these revisions in the United States. The ultimate impact on the Company s capital and liquidity will depend on the final rule-makings and the implementation process thereafter.  
  The Company is subject to significant financial and reputational risks from potential legal liability and governmental actions  The Company faces significant
legal risks in its business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and governmental proceedings against it and other financial institutions have increased in recent years. Customers, clients and other
counterparties have grown more litigious and are making claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages, while banking regulators and certain other governmental authorities have demonstrated an increased focus on enforcement. In addition,
governmental authorities have, at times, sought criminal penalties against companies in the financial services sector for violations, and, at times, have required an admission of wrongdoing from financial institutions in connection with resolving
such matters. Criminal convictions or admissions of wrongdoing in a settlement with the government can lead to greater exposure in civil litigation and reputational harm.  
 As an example of increased risks arising from litigation, the Company and other large financial institutions have been sued over the past several
years in their capacity as trustee for residential mortgage backed securities ( RMBS ) trusts. The plaintiffs in these actions allege that the significant losses they incurred as investors in the RMBS trusts were caused by the
trustees  failure to enforce loan repurchase obligations and to abide by appropriate standards of care after events of default allegedly occurred, while also arguing to broaden the trustees  duties. Although the Company has denied
liability and believes it has meritorious defenses in these cases, any finding of liability or new or enhanced duties in one or more of these cases against the Company, or another financial institution, could result in a  
 significant financial loss or require a modification to the

Company s business practices, which could negatively impact the Company s financial results.  
 Substantial legal liability or significant governmental action against the Company could materially impact its financial condition and results of
operations or cause significant reputational harm to the Company, which in turn could adversely impact its business prospects. Also, the resolution of a litigation or regulatory matter could result in additional accruals (for instance, the
$608 million accrued liability reflected in the Company s financial results for the fourth quarter of 2017 relating to the matters the Company has resolved with the OCC, the U.S. Attorney s Office, and FinCEN relating to the
Company s legacy Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance program) or exceed established accruals for a particular period, which could materially impact the Company s results from operations for that period.  
  The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches in contractual representations and
warranties  When the Company sells mortgage loans that it has originated to various parties, including GSEs, it is required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they
were originated. The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or be subject to indemnification claims in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a certain period. Contracts for
residential mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied if the Company does not adequately respond to repurchase requests. If economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate
or the GSEs increase their claims for breached representations and warranties, the Company could have increased repurchase obligations and increased losses on repurchases, requiring material increases to its repurchase reserve.  
  The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title to properties  In the course of the Company s business, the Company may
foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage,
personal injury, investigation and  clean-up  costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or
chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be subject to common law claims by third
parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
affected.  

Table of Contents  

Economic and Market Conditions Risk   
  Deterioration in business and economic conditions could adversely affect the financial services industry, and a reversal or slowing of the current economic recovery
could adversely affect the Company s lending business and the value of loans and debt securities it holds  The Company s business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and abroad,
including factors such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity
capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, and the strength of the domestic and global economies in which the Company
operates. The deterioration of any of these conditions can adversely affect the Company s consumer and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, its level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, its capital levels and liquidity,
and its results of operations.    Given the high percentage of the Company s assets represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the
importance of lending to its overall business, weak economic conditions are likely to have a negative impact on the Company s business and results of operations. A reversal or slowing of the current economic recovery or another severe
contraction could adversely impact loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and the ability of customers to meet obligations under the loans. The value to the Company of other assets such as investment securities, most of which are
debt securities or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy. Downward valuation of debt securities could also
negatively impact the Company s capital position.    Stress in the commercial real estate markets, or a downturn in the residential real estate
markets, could cause credit losses and deterioration in asset values for the Company and other financial institutions. A downturn in used auto prices from its current levels could result in increased credit losses and impairment of residual lease
values for the Company. Additionally, the current environment of heightened scrutiny of financial institutions, as well as a continued focus on the pace and sustainability of the economic recovery, has resulted in increased public awareness of and
sensitivity to banking fees and practices.    Any deterioration in global economic conditions, including those that could follow a withdrawal of the
United Kingdom from the European Union and other political trends toward nationalism, could slow the recovery of the domestic economy or negatively impact the Company s borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect exposure to
these regions. Such global disruptions can undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or create market volatility, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the Company s businesses, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity,  

even if the Company s direct exposure to the affected region is limited.    Recent
changes to tax policy in the United States could also adversely impact certain segments of the domestic economy, which could negatively affect demand for loans and  fee-based  financial services. The
implications of the Tax Cuts and Job Act s repatriation provisions are also uncertain, with possible negative effects on demand for loans, deposits and other services. Any further changes to economic or trade policies could also erode consumer
confidence levels, cause adverse changes in payment patterns, lead to increases in delinquencies and default rates in certain industries or regions, or have other negative market or customer impacts. Such developments could increase the
Company s loan charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Any future economic deterioration that affects household or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or  fee-based 
products and services.     Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company s net interest income  The Company s earnings are dependent to a large
degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are
affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, the Company s financial position is affected by
fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments. Direct investments, such as United States government and corporate securities and other
investment vehicles (including mutual funds), generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements.  
 In addition, interest rate indices on many of the Company s outstanding financial instruments are subject to change based on regulatory
developments, which could adversely affect the Company s revenue, expenses, and the value of those financial instruments. In July 2017, the United Kingdom s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the London interbank offered rate
( LIBOR ), announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. The transition from LIBOR to another benchmark rate could have adverse impacts on the Company s assets, liabilities and
financial condition. Furthermore, the interest rates on floating-rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments that currently use LIBOR as a benchmark rate, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those
financial instruments, could be adversely affected.  

Table of Contents  

Credit and Mortgage Business Risk   
  Heightened credit risk could require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
results of   operations and financial condition  When the Company lends money, or commits to lend money, it incurs credit risk, or the risk of losses if its borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of the largest lenders in the United
States, the credit performance of the Company s loan portfolios significantly affects its financial results and condition. The Company incurred high levels of losses on loans during the most recent financial crisis and recovery period, and if
the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more of its customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations, which could result in a higher level of credit losses and higher provisions for credit losses. The Company
reserves for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. The amount of the Company s allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience as well as an
evaluation of the risks associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The stress on the United States economy and the
local economies in which the Company does business may be greater or last longer than expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of the loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing
those loans.    In addition, the process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and
complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. These economic predictions and their impact may no longer be capable of accurate
estimation, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. As with any such assessments, the Company may fail to identify the proper factors or to accurately estimate the impacts of the factors that the Company does identify. The Company
also makes loans to borrowers where it does not have or service the loan with the first lien on the property securing its loan. For loans in a junior lien position, the Company may not have access to information on the position or performance of the
first lien when it is held and serviced by a third party, which may adversely affect the accuracy of the loss estimates for loans of these types. Increases in the Company s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan
losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect its financial results. In addition, the Company s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses
to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future behaviors.     A concentration of credit and market risk in the Company s loan
portfolio could increase the potential for significant losses  The Company may have higher credit risk, or experience higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by

loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. For example, the Company s credit risk and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in
similar activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions, or by regulation, such as regulation related to climate change. Deterioration in economic conditions or real estate values in states or regions where
the Company has relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial real estate could result in higher credit costs. In particular, deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in California could result in
significantly higher credit losses to the Company.     Changes in interest rates can impact the value of the Company s mortgage servicing rights and mortgages
held for sale, and can make its mortgage banking revenue volatile from quarter to quarter, which can reduce its earnings  The Company has a portfolio of MSRs, which is the right to service a mortgage loan collect principal, interest and
escrow amounts for a fee. The Company initially carries its MSRs using a fair value measurement of the present value of the estimated future net servicing income, which includes assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.
Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. As interest rates fall, prepayments tend to increase as borrowers refinance, and the fair value of MSRs can decrease, which in turn reduces the Company s earnings.
Further, it is possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall or remain low, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be
enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs  value caused by the lower rates.     A decline in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely
affect the Company s results of operations  The Company s ability to engage in routine funding or settlement transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other domestic or foreign financial
institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different counterparties, and the Company routinely executes and settles
transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions
about, the soundness of one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions and impact the Company s predominately United
States based businesses or the less significant merchant processing, corporate trust and fund administration services businesses it operates in foreign countries. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a
default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company s credit risk may be further increased when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon

Table of Contents  

or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is no assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect
the Company s results of operations.     Change in residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on the Company s financial results  The
Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk that the residual value of the property under lease will be less than the Company s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in the residual value of leased assets can have a
negative impact on the Company s financial results. The risk of changes in the realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual values depends on many factors outside of the Company s control, including supply and demand
for the assets, condition of the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic factors.     Operations and Business Risk   
  A breach in the security of the Company s systems, or the systems of certain third parties, could disrupt the Company s businesses, result in the
disclosure of confidential information, damage its reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure  Although the Company devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and processes that are designed to
protect the security of the Company s computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets, as well as its intellectual property, and to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the Company
and its customers, the Company s security measures may not be entirely effective. Many financial services institutions, retailers and other companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other
systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer
viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. The data breach experienced by a major credit reporting institution in 2017, through which the personal information of as many as 145.5 million of its customers was compromised, illustrates the
cybersecurity risks facing the financial services industry. The Company and certain other large financial institutions in the United States have experienced several well-publicized episodes of apparently related attacks from technically
sophisticated and well-resourced third parties that were intended to disrupt normal business activities by making internet banking systems inaccessible to customers for extended periods. These    denial-of-service    attacks require substantial resources to defend and could result in system outages that affect customer satisfaction and behavior.  
 Attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall functioning of the financial system could also adversely affect, directly or
indirectly, aspects of the Company s businesses. As a result of the increasing consolidation,

interdependence and complexity of financial entities and technology systems, a technology failure, cyber attack, or other information or security breach that significantly degrades, deletes or
compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including the Company. This consolidation, interconnectivity and complexity increases the risk of
operational failure, on both an entity-specific and an industry-wide basis.    Third parties that facilitate the Company s business activities,
including exchanges, clearinghouses, payment and ATM networks, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or technology solutions for the Company s operations, could also be sources of operational and security risks to the
Company, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, misconduct by their employees or cyber attacks that could affect their ability to deliver a product or service to the Company or result in lost or compromised information of
the Company or its customers. The Company s ability to implement  back-up  systems or other safeguards with respect to third party systems is much more limited than with respect to its own systems.
Furthermore, an attack on or failure of a third party system may not be revealed to the Company in a timely manner, which could compromise the Company s ability to respond effectively. Some of these third parties may engage vendors of their own
as they provide services or technology solutions for the Company s operations, which introduces the risk that these  fourth parties  could be the source of operational and security failures.  
 In addition, during the past several years a number of retailers and hospitality companies have disclosed substantial cyber security breaches
affecting debit and credit card accounts of their customers, some of whom were the Company s cardholders. These attacks involving Company cards are likely to continue and could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect
on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.    It is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate or to implement
effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently, generally increase in sophistication, often are not recognized until launched, and sometimes go undetected even
when successful, and, in addition, because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, hostile foreign governments and other external parties. Those parties may also
attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of the Company s systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to the Company s data or that of its customers or clients, such as through
 phishing  schemes. These risks may increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage of
 web-based  products and applications. In addition, the Company s customers often use their own devices, such as computers, smart phones and tablet computers, to make payments and manage their accounts. The
Company has limited ability to assure the safety and security of  

Table of Contents  

its customers  transactions with the Company to the extent they are using their own devices, which could be subject to similar threats.  
 If the Company s security systems were penetrated or circumvented, or if an authorized user intentionally or unintentionally removed, lost or
destroyed operations data, it could cause serious negative consequences for the Company, including significant disruption of the Company s operations, misappropriation of confidential information of the Company or that of its customers, or
damage to computers or systems of the Company or those of its customers and counterparties. These consequences could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws; financial loss to the Company or to its customers; loss of confidence in
the Company s security measures; customer dissatisfaction; significant litigation exposure; regulatory fines, penalties or intervention; reimbursement or other compensatory costs; additional compliance costs; and harm to the Company s
reputation, all of which could adversely affect the Company.     The Company relies on its employees, systems and third parties to conduct its business, and certain
failures by systems or misconduct by employees or third parties could adversely affect its operations  The Company operates in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high
number of transactions. The Company s business, financial, accounting, data processing, and other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events
that are out of its control. In addition to the risks posed by information security breaches, as discussed above, such systems could be compromised because of spikes in transaction volume, electrical or telecommunications outages, degradation or
loss of internet or website availability, natural disasters, political or social unrest, and terrorist acts. The Company s business operations may be adversely affected by significant disruption to the operating systems that support its
businesses and customers.    The Company could also incur losses resulting from the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company,
unauthorized access to its computer systems, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business
continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions, fines or civil money penalties that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory
standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity.    Third parties provide
key components of the Company s business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. While the Company has selected these third parties carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems
caused by third party service providers, including as a result of not providing the Company their services for any reason or performing their services poorly, could

adversely affect the Company s ability to deliver products and services to the Company s customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing third party service providers could
also entail significant delay and expense. In addition, failure of third party service providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the Company s ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise
to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the Company s businesses to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided
by that party.    Operational risks for large institutions such as the Company have generally increased in recent years, in part because of the
proliferation of new technologies, the use of internet services and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, the increased number and complexity of transactions being processed, and the increased sophistication and
activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Company s possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Company
could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. This mishandling or misuse of private data could include, for example, situations in which the information is erroneously provided to parties who are not
permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Company s systems, employees, or third party service providers, or where the information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. In the event of a breakdown
in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee or third party actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face legal or regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.  
  The Company could lose market share and experience increased costs if it does not effectively develop and implement new technology  The financial services
industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, including innovative ways that customers can make payments or manage their accounts, such as through the use of
digital wallets or digital currencies. The Company s continued success depends, in part, upon its ability to address customer needs by using technology to provide products and services that customers want to adopt, and create additional
efficiencies in the Company s operations. Developing and deploying new technology-driven products and services can also involve costs that the Company may not recover and divert resources away from other product development efforts. The Company
may not be able to effectively develop and implement profitable new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change
affecting the financial services industry could harm the Company s competitive position and negatively affect its revenue and profit.

Table of Contents  

Negative publicity could damage the Company s reputation and adversely impact its business and financial
results    Reputational risk, or the risk to the Company s business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company s business and increased substantially because of the financial crisis beginning in
2008. The reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues and, more recently, concerns
about improper sales practices related to retail customers. Negative public opinion about the financial services industry generally or the Company specifically could adversely affect the Company s ability to keep and attract customers, and
expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Negative public opinion can result from the Company s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices,
corporate governance, executive compensation, incentive-based compensation paid to and supervision of sales personnel, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and related disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information,
and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because most of the Company s businesses operate under the  U.S. Bank  brand, actual or alleged conduct by one business can result in
negative public opinion about other businesses the Company operates. Although the Company takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified financial services company with
a high industry profile, is inherently exposed to this risk.     The Company s business and financial performance could be adversely affected, directly or
indirectly, by natural disasters, by terrorist activities or by international   hostilities  Neither the occurrence nor the potential impact of natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities can be predicted. However,
these occurrences could impact the Company directly (for example, by interrupting the Company s systems, which could prevent the Company from obtaining deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business; causing
significant damage to the Company s facilities; or otherwise preventing the Company from conducting business in the ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on the Company s borrowers, depositors, other customers,
suppliers or other counterparties (for example, by damaging properties pledged as collateral for the Company s loans or impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans). The Company could also suffer adverse consequences to the
extent that natural disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any particular region. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies,
bankruptcies or defaults that could result in the Company experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.

The Company s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of these occurrences is in part
dependent on the quality of the Company s resiliency planning, and the Company s ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of natural disasters, terrorist activities or international
hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that the Company transacts with, particularly those
that it depends upon, but has no control over. Additionally, the nature and level of natural disasters may be exacerbated by global climate change.     Liquidity
Risk      If the Company does not effectively manage its liquidity, its business could suffer  The Company s liquidity is essential for the operation of
its business. Market conditions, unforeseen outflows of funds or other events could negatively affect the Company s level or cost of funding, affecting its ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet
contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If the Company s access to stable and  low-cost  sources of funding, such as
customer deposits, is reduced, the Company might need to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of limited availability. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged changes in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the
Company s business.     Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company s funding costs  The Company relies on bank deposits to be a  low-cost  and stable source of funding. The Company competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If the Company s competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the Company s
funding costs may increase, either because the Company raises its rates to avoid losing deposits or because the Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce the Company s net interest
margin and net interest income. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When
customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company may lose a relatively  low-cost  source of funds, increasing the Company s funding costs and reducing the Company s net
interest income.     A downgrade in the Company s credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity, funding costs and access to capital
markets  The Company s credit ratings are important to its liquidity. A reduction in one or more of the Company s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, increase its funding costs or limit its access to the capital
markets. Further, a downgrade could decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing or able, contractually or otherwise, to do business or lend to the Company, thereby

Table of Contents  

adversely affecting the Company s competitive position. The Company s credit ratings and credit rating agencies  outlooks are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies,
which consider a number of factors, including the Company s own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations, as well as factors not within the control of the Company, including conditions affecting the financial services industry
generally. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain its current ratings and outlooks.     The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for
its liquidity needs, and the payment of those dividends are limited by laws and regulations  The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from U.S. Bank National Association and its  non-bank 
subsidiaries. The Company receives a significant portion of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company s stock and interest and principal on its debt.
Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that U.S. Bank National Association and certain of its  non-bank  subsidiaries may pay to the Company without regulatory approval.
Also, the Company s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors, except to the extent that any of the Company s
claims as a creditor of that subsidiary may be recognized.     Competitive and Strategic Risk   
  The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the Company s financial results  The
Company operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may increase in connection with current
economic and market conditions. This consolidation may produce larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. The Company
competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card companies, and a variety of other financial services and
advisory companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for  non-banks  to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and made it possible for
technology companies to compete with financial institutions in providing electronic and internet-based financial solutions. Competition with  non-banks,  including technology companies, to provide financial
products and services is expected to intensify. Many of the Company s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes

in information technology systems, on which the Company and financial services industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues and require capital spending. The Company s
ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among others, its ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building long-term customer relationships based on quality
service, competitive prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; and industry and general economic trends. A failure to compete effectively could contribute to downward price pressure on the Company s products or services or a loss
of market share.     The Company may need to lower prices on existing products and services and develop and introduce new products and services to maintain market
share  The Company s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce the
Company s net interest margin and revenues from its  fee-based  products and services. In addition, the adoption of new technologies or further developments in current technologies, such as mobile phones
and tablet computers, could require the Company to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in the Company s businesses may not produce expected growth in
earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The Company might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, adapting to changing customer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance of
its products and services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal customer relationships.     The Company s business could suffer if it fails to
attract and retain skilled employees  The Company s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition for the best people in most activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company may
not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. Recent strong scrutiny of compensation practices has resulted in, and may continue to result in, additional regulation and legislation in this area. As a result, the Company may not be able to
retain key employees by providing adequate compensation. In addition, there is the potential for changes in immigration policies in multiple jurisdictions and to the extent that immigration policies or work authorization programs were to unduly
restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for qualified employees to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which the Company has operations or conducts its business, the Company could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that these
developments will not cause increased turnover or impede the Company s ability to retain and attract the highest caliber employees.

Table of Contents  

The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may not produce revenue
enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated, may result in unforeseen   integration difficulties, and may dilute existing shareholders  interests  The Company regularly explores opportunities to
acquire financial services businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or financial institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions it might pursue.  
 The Company must generally receive federal regulatory approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. The Company s ability to
pursue or complete an attractive acquisition could be negatively impacted by regulatory delay or other regulatory issues. The Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted.
For example, the Company may be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval for bank acquisitions. If the Company commits certain regulatory violations, including those that result in a downgrade in certain of the
Company s bank regulatory ratings, governmental authorities could, as a consequence, preclude it from pursuing future acquisitions for a period of time.  
 There can be no assurance that acquisitions the Company completes will have the anticipated positive results, including results related to expected
revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits. Integration efforts could divert management s attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Company s operations or
results. The integration could result in higher than expected customer loss, deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of the Company s businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the
Company s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business
combinations may be greater than expected. In addition, future acquisitions may also expose the Company to increased legal or regulatory risks. Finally, future acquisitions could be material to the Company, and it may issue additional shares of
stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders  ownership interests.     Accounting and Tax Risk   
  The Company s reported financial results depend on management s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates, which, if
incorrect,   could cause unexpected losses in the future  The Company s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company s
management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management s judgment

regarding the most appropriate manner to report the Company s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply
from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the Company s reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.  
 Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company s financial condition and results of operations. They require management to
make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the
allowance for credit losses, estimations of fair value, the valuation of purchased loans and related indemnification assets, the valuation of MSRs, the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty
of estimates involved in these matters, the Company may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided,
recognize significant impairment on its goodwill and other intangible asset balances, or significantly increase its accrued taxes liability. For more information, refer to  Critical Accounting Policies  in this Annual Report.  
  Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company s financial statements  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how
the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, on a retroactive basis, in each case
potentially resulting in the Company restating prior period financial statements. As an example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued accounting guidance, effective for the Company no later than January 1, 2020, related to the
impairment of financial instruments, particularly the allowance for loan losses. This guidance changes existing impairment recognition to a model that is based on expected losses rather than incurred losses, which is intended to result in more
timely recognition of credit losses. This guidance will be adopted by way of a cumulative effect adjustment recorded to beginning retained earnings upon the effective date. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its
financial statements.     The Company s investments in certain  tax-advantaged  projects may not generate returns as
anticipated and may have an adverse impact on the Company s financial results  The Company invests in certain  tax-advantaged  projects promoting affordable housing, community development and renewable
energy resources. The Company s investments in  

Table of Contents  

these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other tax benefits, over specified time periods. The Company is
subject to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet certain government compliance requirements and
will not be able to be realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credit and other tax benefits can have a negative impact on the Company s financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax credits and other tax
benefits depends on many factors outside of the Company s control, including changes in the applicable tax code and the ability of the projects to be completed.  
  Risk Management      The Company s framework for managing risks may not
be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company  The Company s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. The Company has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and

analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk, and operational risk
related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to the Company s risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it
has not appropriately anticipated or identified. The Company relies on quantitative models to measure certain risks and to estimate certain financial values, and these models could fail to predict future events or exposures accurately. The financial
and credit crises that began in 2008 and the resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks, and the Company s regulators remain focused on ensuring that financial
institutions build and maintain robust risk management policies. If the Company s risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and suffer unexpected losses that could
affect its financial condition or results of operations.  

Table of Contents  

Executive Officers   
    
   Andrew Cecere     Mr. Cecere
is President and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 57, has served as President of U.S. Bancorp since January 2016 and Chief Executive Officer since April 2017. He also served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer
from January 2015 to January 2016 and was U.S. Bancorp s Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer from February 2007 until January 2015. Until that time, he served as Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Investment Services of U.S. Bancorp
since the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. Previously, he had served as an executive officer of the former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial Officer from May 2000 through February 2001.  
  Jennie P. Carlson     Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President and Chief
Human Resources Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 57, has served in this position since January 2002. Until that time, she served as Executive Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since
the merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From 1995 until the merger, she was General Counsel and Secretary of Firstar Corporation and Star Banc Corporation.  
  James L. Chosy     Mr. Chosy is Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Chosy, 54, has served in this position since March 2013. He also served as Corporate Secretary of U.S, Bancorp from March 2013 until April 2016. From 2001 to 2013, he served as the General Counsel and Secretary
of Piper Jaffray Companies. From 1995 to 2001, Mr. Chosy was Vice President and Associate General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp, having also served as Assistant Secretary of U.S. Bancorp from 1995 through 2000 and as Secretary from 2000 until
2001.     Terrance R. Dolan     Mr. Dolan is Vice Chairman and Chief
Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Dolan, 56, has served in this position since August 2016. From July 2010 to July 2016, he served as Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Investment Services, of U.S. Bancorp. From September 1998 to July
2010, Mr. Dolan served as U.S. Bancorp s Controller. He additionally held the title of Executive Vice President from January 2002 until June 2010 and Senior Vice President from September 1998 until January 2002.

John R. Elmore   
 Mr. Elmore is Vice Chairman, Community Banking and Branch Delivery, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Elmore, 61, has served in this position since March 2013. From
1999 to 2013, he served as Executive Vice President, Community Banking, of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor company, Firstar Corporation.     Leslie V. Godridge 
   Ms. Godridge is Vice Chairman, Corporate and Commercial Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Godridge, 62, has served in this position since January 2016. From
February 2013 until December 2015, she served as Executive Vice President, National Corporate Specialized Industries and Global Treasury Management, of U.S. Bancorp. From February 2007, when she joined U.S. Bancorp, until January 2013,
Ms. Godridge served as Executive Vice President, National Corporate and Institutional Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she served as Senior Executive Vice President and a member of the Executive Committee at The Bank of New York,
where she was head of BNY Asset Management, Private Banking, Consumer Banking and Regional Commercial Banking from 2004 to 2006.     Gunjan Kedia   
 Ms. Kedia is Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Investment Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Kedia, 47, has served in this position since joining U.S. Bancorp
in December 2016. From October 2008 until May 2016, she served as Executive Vice President of State Street Corporation where she led the core investment servicing business in North and South America and served as a member of State Street s
management committee, its senior most strategy and policy committee. Previously, Ms. Kedia was an Executive Vice President of global product management at Bank of New York Mellon from 2004 to 2008.  
  James B. Kelligrew     Mr. Kelligrew is Vice Chairman, Corporate and
Commercial Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Kelligrew, 52, has served in this position since January 2016. From March 2014 until December 2015, he served as Executive Vice President, Fixed Income and Capital Markets, of U.S. Bancorp, having served
as Executive Vice President, Credit Fixed Income, of U.S. Bancorp from May 2009 to March 2014. Prior to that time, he held various leadership positions with Wells Fargo Securities from 2003 to 2009, and with Bank of America Securities from 1993 to
2003.  

Table of Contents  

Shailesh M. Kotwal   
 Mr. Kotwal is Vice Chairman, Payment Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Kotwal, 53, has served in this position since joining U.S. Bancorp in March 2015. From
July 2008 until May 2014, he served as Executive Vice President of TD Bank Group with responsibility for retail banking products and services and as Chair of its enterprise payments council. From 2006 until 2008, he served as President,
International, of eFunds Corporation. Previously, Mr. Kotwal served in various leadership roles at American Express Company from 1989 until 2006, including responsibility for operations in North and South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific
regions.     P.W. Parker     Mr. Parker is Vice Chairman and Chief Risk
Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 61, has served in this position since December 2013. From October 2007 until December 2013 he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp. From March 2005 until October
2007, he served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp since January 2002.  
  Katherine B. Quinn     Ms. Quinn is Vice Chairman and Chief Administration
Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Quinn, 53, has served in this position since April 2017. From September 2013 to April 2017, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Reputation Officer of U.S. Bancorp and has served on U.S.
Bancorp s Managing Committee since January 2015. From September 2010 until January 2013, she served as Chief Marketing Officer of WellPoint, Inc. (now known as Anthem, Inc.), having served as Head of Corporate Marketing of WellPoint from July
2005 until September 2010. Prior to that time, she served as Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer at The Hartford from 2003 until 2005.

Mark G. Runkel   
 Mr. Runkel is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Runkel, 41, has served in this position since December 2013. From
February 2011 until December 2013, he served as Senior Vice President and Credit Risk Group Manager of U.S. Bancorp Retail and Payment Services Credit Risk Management, having served as Senior Vice President and Risk Manager of U.S. Bancorp Retail
and Small Business Credit Risk Management from June 2009 until February 2011. From March 2005 until May 2009, he served as Vice President and Risk Manager of U.S. Bancorp.  
  Jeffry H. von Gillern     Mr. von Gillern is Vice Chairman, Technology and
Operations Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. von Gillern, 52, has served in this position since July 2010. From April 2001, when he joined U.S. Bancorp, until July 2010, Mr. von Gillern served as Executive Vice President of
U.S. Bancorp, additionally serving as Chief Information Officer from July 2007 until July 2010.     Timothy A. Welsh   
 Mr. Welsh is Vice Chairman, Consumer Banking Sales and Support, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Welsh, 52, has served in this position since joining U.S. Bancorp in
July 2017. From July 2006 until June 2017, he served as a Senior Partner at McKinsey   Company where he specialized in financial services and the consumer experience. Previously, Mr. Welsh served as a Partner at McKinsey  
Company from 1999 to 2006.  

Table of Contents  

Directors   
    
   Richard K.
Davis 1  ,3,7       Executive Chairman and former Chief
Executive Officer     U.S. Bancorp     Douglas M. Baker, Jr. 1,5,7       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 Ecolab Inc.    (Cleaning and sanitizing products)  
  Warner L. Baxter 1,2,3    
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Ameren Corporation  
 (Energy)     Marc N.
Casper 3,6       President and Chief Executive Officer   
 Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.    (Life sciences and healthcare technology)  
  Andrew Cecere 3,7    
  President and Chief Executive Officer     U.S. Bancorp  
  Arthur D. Collins, Jr. 1,4,5    
  Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     Medtronic, Inc.  
 (Medical device and technology)     Kimberly J. Harris 1,5,6       President and Chief Executive Officer   
 Puget Energy, Inc. and Puget Sound Energy, Inc.    (Energy)  
  Roland A. Hernandez 1,2,6    
  Founding Principal and Chief Executive Officer     Hernandez Media Ventures
   (Media)     Doreen Woo
Ho 3,7       Commissioner   
 San Francisco Port Commission    (Government)

Olivia F. Kirtley 1,4,7    
  Business Consultant     (Consulting)  
  Karen S. Lynch 2,6    
  President     Aetna Inc.  
 (Healthcare benefits)     Richard P. McKenney 6,7       President and Chief Executive Officer   
 Unum Group    (Financial protection benefits)  
  David B. O Maley  1,4,5    
  Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Ohio National
Financial Services, Inc.    (Insurance)     O dell M. Owens, M.D.,
M.P.H. 4,6       President and Chief Executive Officer   
 Interact for Health    (Health and wellness)  
  Craig D. Schnuck 5,7    
  Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     Schnuck Markets, Inc.  
 (Food retail)     Scott W.
Wine 2,4       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 Polaris Industries Inc.    (Motorized products)

1.  
  Executive Committee     

2.  
  Audit Committee     

3.  
  Capital Planning Committee     

4.  
  Compensation and Human Resources Committee     

5.  
  Governance Committee     

6.  
  Public Responsibility Committee     

7.  
  Risk Management Committee     

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 d492040dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21   
  SUBSIDIARIES OF U.S. BANCORP   
  (JURISDICTIONS OF ORGANIZATION SHOWN IN PARENTHESES)       

111 Tower Investors, Inc. (Minnesota)  
 
 Daimler Title Co. (Delaware)  
 
 DSL Service Company (California)  
 
 Eclipse Funding LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Elavon Canada Company (Canada)  
 
 Elavon European Holdings B.V. (Netherlands)  
 
 Elavon European Holdings C.V. (Netherlands)  
 
 Elavon Financial Services DAC (Ireland)  
 
 Elavon Latin American Holdings, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Elavon Merchant Services Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. (Mexico)  
 
 Elavon Mexico Holding Company, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)  
 
 Elavon Operations Company, S. de R.I. de C.V. (Mexico)  
 
 Elavon Puerto Rico, Inc. (Puerto Rico)  
 
 Elavon Services Company, S. de R.I. de C.V. (Mexico)  
 
 Elavon, Inc. (Georgia)  
 
 EuroConex Technologies Limited (Ireland)  
 
 Fairfield Financial Group, Inc. (Illinois)  
 
 First Bank LaCrosse Building Corp. (Wisconsin)  
 
 First LaCrosse Properties (Wisconsin)  
 
 Firstar Capital Corporation (Ohio)  
 
 Firstar Development, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Firstar Realty, L.L.C. (Illinois)  
 
 Fixed Income Client Solutions LLC (Delaware)  
 
 FSV Payment Systems, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 Galaxy Funding, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 GTLT, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 HTD Leasing LLC (Delaware)  
 
 HVT, Inc. (Delaware)  

Integrated Logistics, LLC (Georgia)  
 
  MBS-UI   Sub-CDE  XVI, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Mercantile Mortgage Financial Company (Illinois)  
 
 Midwest Indemnity Inc. (Vermont)  
 
 Mississippi Valley Company (Arizona)  
 
 MMCA Lease Services, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 NILT, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 NuMaMe, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 One Eleven Investors LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Park Bank Initiatives, Inc. (Illinois)  
 
 Pomona Financial Services, Inc. (California)  
 
 Pullman Park Development, LLC (Illinois)  
 
 Pullman Park Investment Fund I, LLC (Missouri)  
 
 Pullman Transformation, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 Quasar Distributors, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Quintillion Holding Company Limited (Ireland)  
 
 Quintillion Limited (Ireland)  
 
 Quintillion Services Limited (Ireland)  
 
 RBC Community Development Sub 3, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Red Sky Risk Services, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 RTRT, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 SCBD, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 SCDA, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 SCFD LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Syncada Asia Pacific Private Limited (Singapore)  
 
 Syncada Canada ULC (Canada)  
 
 Syncada India Operations Private Limited (India)  
 
 Syncada LLC (Delaware)  
 
 Tarquad Corporation (Missouri)  
 
 The Miami Valley Insurance Company (Arizona)  
 
 TMTT, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Community Development Corporation (Minnesota)  

U.S. Bancorp Community Investment Corporation (Delaware)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Fund Services (Guernsey), Limited (Guernsey)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Fund Services, Limited (United Kingdom)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Fund Services, LLC (Wisconsin)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Fund Services, Ltd. (Cayman Islands)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Government Leasing and Finance, Inc. (Minnesota)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Insurance and Investments, Inc. (Wyoming)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Insurance Company, Inc. (Vermont)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services of Montana, Inc. (Montana)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC (Wisconsin)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Missouri  Low-Income  Housing Tax Credit Fund, L.L.C. (Missouri)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Municipal Lending and Finance, Inc. (Minnesota)  
 
 U.S. Bancorp Service Providers LLC (Delaware)  
 
 U.S. Bank National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)  
 
 U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)  
 
 U.S. Bank Trust National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)  
 
 U.S. Bank Trust National Association SD (a nationally chartered banking association)  
 
 U.S. Bank Trustees Limited (United Kingdom)  
 
 USB Americas Holdings Company (Delaware)  
 
 USB Capital Resources, Inc. (Delaware)  
 
 USB Capital IX (Delaware)  
 
 USB European Holdings Company (Delaware)  
 
 USB Global Investments, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 USB Leasing LLC (Delaware)  
 
 USB Leasing LT (Delaware)  
 
 USB Nominees (UK) Limited (United Kingdom)  
 
 USB Realty Corp. (Delaware)  
 
 USBCDE, LLC (Delaware)  
 
 VT Inc. (Alabama)  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 d492040dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23   
 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:  
   
   of our reports dated February 22, 2018, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of U.S. Bancorp and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of U.S. Bancorp, included in this 2017 Annual Report to Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report (Form
 10-K)  of U.S. Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2017.    /s/ Ernst   Young LLP  
 Minneapolis, Minnesota    February 22, 2018  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 d492040dex24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY     KNOW
ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned directors of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Cecere and James L. Chosy, and each of them, his or her true and lawful   attorney-in-fact   and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one
or more Annual Reports for the Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 on Form  10-K  under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other form as any such   attorney-in-fact   may deem necessary or desirable, any amendments thereto, and all additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them may approve, and
to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said   attorneys-in-fact  
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable
Rules and Regulations adopted or issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said   attorneys-in-fact   and agents, or any of them or their substitute or resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has set his or her hand this 16th day of January, 2018.  

/s/ Douglas M. Baker Jr. 

/s/ Olivia F. Kirtley  
 
 Douglas M. Baker, Jr. 

Olivia F. Kirtley   

/s/ Warner L. Baxter 

/s/ Karen S. Lynch  
 
 Warner L. Baxter 

Karen S. Lynch   

/s/ Marc N. Casper 

/s/ Richard P. McKenney  
 
 Marc N. Casper 

Richard P. McKenney   

/s/ Arthur D. Collins, Jr. 

/s/ David B. O Maley  
 
 Arthur D. Collins, Jr. 

David B. O Maley   

/s/ Richard K. Davis 

/s/ O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.  
 
 Richard K. Davis 

O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.   

/s/ Kimberly J. Harris 

/s/ Craig D. Schnuck  
 
 Kimberly J. Harris 

Craig D. Schnuck   

/s/ Roland A. Hernandez 

/s/ Scott W. Wine   
 
 Roland A. Hernandez 

Scott W. Wine   

/s/ Doreen Woo Ho 

Doreen Woo Ho  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 d492040dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1   
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   
  RULE  13a-14(a)  UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
 I, Andrew Cecere, certify that:      

(1) 
 I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form  10-K  of U.S. Bancorp;        

(2) 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

(3) 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

(4) 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
 13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:        

(a) 
 designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

(b) 
 designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

(c) 
 evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

(d) 
 disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

(5) 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

(a) 
 all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

(b) 
 any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    

/s/ A NDREW  C ECERE   

Andrew Cecere  
 
 Dated: February 22, 2018 

Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 d492040dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2   
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   
  RULE  13a-14(a)  UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
 I, Terrance R. Dolan, certify that:      

(1) 
 I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form  10-K  of U.S. Bancorp;        

(2) 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

(3) 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

(4) 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
 13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:        

(a) 
 designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

(b) 
 designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

(c) 
 evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

(d) 
 disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

(5) 
 The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

(a) 
 all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

(b) 
 any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    

/s/ T ERRANCE  R. D OLAN   

Terrance R. Dolan  
 
 Dated: February 22, 2018 

Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 d492040dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

EXHIBIT 32   
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
 Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), do hereby certify that:    (1) The Annual Report on Form  10-K  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (the  Form  10-K )  of the Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and    (2) The information contained in the Form  10-K  fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.      

/s/ A NDREW  C ECERE  

/s/ T ERRANCE  R. D OLAN   
 
 Andrew Cecere 

Terrance R. Dolan  
 
   Chief Executive Officer   

Chief Financial Officer    
   Dated: February 22, 2018  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 usb-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 usb-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 usb-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 usb-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 usb-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 usb-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

