<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090220_10-K_edgar_data_1800_0001047469-09-001642_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3131894</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>805219</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1829977</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>85</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-09-001642.hdr.sgml : 20090220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090220164422
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-09-001642
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		09625617

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8479376100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MpGjUp3Ei0Uw4yWjyk9d4pqHRYU4tkhkWORMpFkkW0DinrHT04Xi3H8gQOJmAUvH
 IAloYzLg9hdyHOPMdPTbmQ==

 0001047469-09-001642.txt : 20090220

10-K
 1
 a2188623z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

Abbott Laboratories     

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Shares, Without Par Value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

   Yes            No         

   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.     

   Yes            No         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.     

   Yes            No         

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

Large Accelerated Filer       
     
   Accelerated Filer       
     
   Non-accelerated Filer       
     
   Smaller Reporting Company       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     

   Yes            No         

   The aggregate market value of the 1,487,087,336 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2008), was $78,771,016,188. Abbott has no
non-voting common equity.     

   Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2009: 1,545,382,675     

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

   Portions of the 2009 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 13, 2009.     

PART I            

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS            

          Incorporated herein by reference is Note 7 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to Humira  included in "Financial Review."   

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Nutritional Products, Diagnostic Products, and Vascular Products.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott announced an agreement to acquire Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO), a marketer of ophthalmic surgical technology and devices, as well as eye care
solutions, for approximately $2.8 billion, in cash and debt, to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts. The transaction
is expected to close in the first quarter of 2009. AMO's sales are more than $1 billion per year.   

          On
April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. ("TAP") joint venture. Abbott exchanged its equity interest in
TAP for the assets, liabilities, and employees related to TAP's Lupron business.   

*    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide, which are
available primarily on the prescription, or recommendation, of physicians. In 2008, Abbott and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint
venture and Lupron's U.S. results are now included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

          The
principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:   

Humira , for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
and Crohn's disease;     
           TriCor , TriLipix , Simcor , and Niaspan , for the treatment of
dyslipidemia;     
           Kaletra , Aluvia , and Norvir , protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV
infection;     
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism;     
           Lupron , also marketed as Lucrin , and Lupron Depot , used for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;    
           Meridia  and Reductil , for the treatment of obesity;     
           Depakote , an agent for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder and the prevention of migraines;    
           the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane  and outside of the
United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane  and in a few other markets as Ultane ), isoflurane, and enflurane;     
           the anti-infectives clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin , Klacid , and
Klaricid ), and various forms of the antibiotic erythromycin, sold primarily as PCE  or polymercoated erythromycin, Erythrocin , and E.E.S.     
           Zemplar , for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney
disease and Stage 5 treatment; and     
           Prevacid , also marketed as Ogastro (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor that is marketed outside of the
United States and used principally for the short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis.    

The
Pharmaceutical Products segment markets most of its products worldwide and generally sells its products directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities,
specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other
companies. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. This segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription of Abbott's brand of products
by physicians. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.   

Competition
in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products
is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the
Pharmaceutical   

  2  

Products
segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products that are
off-patent.   

    Diagnostic Products     

          These products include diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide to blood banks, hospitals, commercial
laboratories, physicians' offices, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies.   

The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:   

immunoassay systems, including ARCHITECT , AxSYM , IMx , Commander ,
Abbott PRISM , TDx , and TDxFlx      
           chemistry systems such as ARCHITECT  c8000  and c16000      
           assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;     
           the m2000 , an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples and detects and measures infections agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, and HPV;     
           the Vysis  product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion  HER-2 DNA
probe kit and the UroVysion  bladder cancer recurrence kit;     
           a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn  series; and    
           the i-STAT  point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.    

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
Viroseq  HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals, laboratories, clinics, and physicians' offices from Abbott-owned distribution centers
and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new
products.   

    Nutritional Products     

          These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, and government agencies.   

Principal
products in the Nutritional Products segment include:   

various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac Advance , Similac Advance  with EarlyShield , Similac , Similac  with Iron, Similac Sensitive ,
Similac    
 
  3  

Sensitive
RS , Similac  Go Grow , Similac  NeoSure , Similac  Organic, Isomil  Advance ,
Isomil , Isomil  Go Grow , Alimentum , Gain , and Grow     

adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus ,
Ensure  High Protein, Glucerna , ProSure , PediaSure , PediaSure  NutriPals , EleCare , Juven , and
Pedialyte      
           nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity ,
Glucerna  1.2 Cal, Glucerna  1.5 Cal, Osmolite , Oxepa , and Nepro  and     
           ZonePerfect  bars and the EAS family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex  and
AdvantEdge .    

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as PediaSure , PediaSure  NutriPals , Ensure , ZonePerfect ,
EAS /Myoplex , and Glucerna  are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts. The Nutritional Products segment's products are generally sold
directly to retailers, wholesalers, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers or third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to
customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The introduction of new products
by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers' products may increase
competitive pressure.   

    Vascular Products     

          These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, and vessel closure devices manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide,
which are used in the treatment of vascular disease.   

          The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:   

Xience V , a next-generation drug-eluting coronary stent system developed on the
Multi-Link Vision  platform;     
           Multi-Link Vision  and Multi-Link Mini Vision , coronary metallic stents;    
           Voyager  balloon dilatation products;     
           Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight  and Asahi coronary guidewires;     
           StarClose  and Perclose  vessel closure devices; and     
           Acculink /Accunet  and Xact /Emboshield , carotid stent systems.    

The
Vascular Products segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States,
sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Although Abbott has
benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.   

  4  

Other Products     

          The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle  product line. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies,
health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through
distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation,
price, convenience of use, service, and product performance, and these products can be subject to rapid product obsolescence.   

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL            

    Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

          Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

    Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses     

          Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents
and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which expire
during the period 2009 to 2028, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related
group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira ), are material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole.
The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patents covering adalimumab will expire in December 2016. In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant for
Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products segment: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra  and Aluvia ), those related to fenofibrate (which is
sold under the trademarks TriCor  and TriLipix ), and those related to niacin (which is sold under the trademarks Niaspan  and Simcor ). The United
States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2016. The United States non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir will expire in 2016. The
principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate products will expire in 2011, 2018, 2020, and 2023. The principal United States
non-composition of matter patents covering the niacin products will expire in 2013, 2014, 2017, and 2018. Litigation related to the products listed above is discussed in Legal Proceedings
on pages 15 through 18.   

          Although
the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition
of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual
property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to
maintain exclusivity or have other commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent.   

    Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation     

There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are   

  5  

generally
filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts
at the election of the government.   

    Research and Development     

          Abbott spent $2,688,811,000 in 2008, $2,505,649,000 in 2007, and $2,255,271,000 in 2006 on research to discover and develop new
products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

    Environmental Matters     

          Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2008 were approximately $20 million and $55 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2009
are estimated to be $14 million and $60 million, respectively.   

          Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States including Puerto Rico under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in
cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation
activities, Abbott believes
that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's
financial position, cash flows, or operations.   

    Employees     

          Abbott employed approximately 69,000 persons as of December 31, 2008.   

    Regulation     

          The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, both domestically and abroad, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures,
clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these
regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions
can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions.
In addition, governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, and establishment fees.   

Abbott
is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's (FDA) Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostics Product segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations
were in substantial conformity with the Quality System Regulation.   

  6  

International
operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through
reimbursement or
pricing limitations, control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished products.   

          Continuing
studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such
studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted,
and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

          Access
to and the cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the
United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's
version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under
Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care
facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control
expenditures for many health care products. Medicare enters contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for medicine delivered under Part D and must develop a competitive bid system for
durable medical equipment, enteral nutrition products, and supplies. Under federal law, manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs
reimbursed under state Medicaid plans. In addition, a majority of states are seeking additional rebates. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on
pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and institutions, as well as certain other
covered entities.   

          In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). All
states are mandated to have in place a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, states obtain rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program
through competitive bidding.   

          Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2009 at all government levels over marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott
believes that if legislation is enacted, it could change access to health care products and services or reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services.   

          Efforts
to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.   

          It
is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

  7  

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS            

          Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

INTERNET INFORMATION            

          Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

          Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ) or
by sending a request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept. 362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations.   

  8  

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

          In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any
of Abbott's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business,
financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.   

   Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses,
which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.     

          Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some
of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected
benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than
originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities.
Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for
impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

   The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.     

          Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to
Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's
intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is
described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings."   

          Abbott
faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes, that may significantly reduce Abbott's sales for that product in a short amount of time. If Abbott fails to maintain its competitive position, because of generics or otherwise, it could
have a material adverse effect on its revenues, margins, business, and results of operations.   

   Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability
and financial condition.     

          Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of   

  9  

affected
Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.     

In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are
not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.   

   Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and
processes.     

          Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international,
supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be
granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new
indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports
and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by
the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning
letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to
Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's
suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these
events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.   

   Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices,
and restrict its operations in the future.     

          Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care
Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and
regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales
or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues,
profitability, and financial condition.   

  10  

Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's
revenue and profitability to decline.     

          To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial
efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested.   

          Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched,
whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful.
Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

   New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more
effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of
competitors' products.   

   The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems
manufacturing products, Abbott's business could suffer.     

          The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters,
and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may
have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause,
similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the
extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.     

          All health care products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration.
Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If   

  11  

new
safety issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow
its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by
regulatory authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of Abbott's products.   

          In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott
promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability losses are self-insured. Product
liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.     

Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 50% of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:   

changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;     
           multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to
manufacture, market, and sell its products;     
           differing local product preferences and product requirements;     
           trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;     
           difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;     
           differing labor regulations;     
           potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;     
           political and economic instability;     
           inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and     
           compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property.    

These
risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

   Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Many other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition, including:   

Differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount.     
           Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and
environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions.    
 
  12  

Changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit trusts.     
           Changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to Abbott or Abbott's
employee benefit trusts.     
           Changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the
U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of
insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.    
           Changes in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to
earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.    
           Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing
decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors, and business partners.     
           Difficulties related to Abbott's information technology systems, any of which could adversely affect business operations,
including any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, or interruption of these systems.     
           Changes in credit markets impacting Abbott's ability to obtain financing for its business operations.    
           In connection with Abbott's acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant
Corporation, Abbott loaned BSC International Holding, Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific) $900 million on a subordinated basis. As long as the loan is outstanding, Abbott
will be a creditor of Boston Scientific with respect to the $900 million loan and, as such, is subject to credit risk.     
           Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability,
including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree.    

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates,
and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify
these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to
differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a
forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to
forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.    

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

          None.   

  13  

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

          Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's
principal plants, as of December 31, 2008, are listed below.   

Location    
     
   Segments of Products Produced    

Abbott Park, Illinois  
     
   Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Alameda, California*  
     
   Non-Reportable  

Altavista, Virginia  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
   Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Brockville, Canada  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Buenos Aires, Argentina  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Casa Grande, Arizona  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Clonmel, Ireland  
     
   Vascular Products  

Columbus, Ohio  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Cootehill, Ireland  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Dartford, England*  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Des Plaines, Illinois  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Edison, New Jersey*  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Fairfield, California*  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Granada, Spain  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Irving, Texas  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Karachi, Pakistan  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Katsuyama, Japan  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Longford, Ireland  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Ludwigshafen, Germany  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada*  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Redwood City, California*  
     
   Vascular Products  

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Santa Clara, California  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Singapore  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Sligo, Ireland  
     
   Nutritional and Diagnostic Products  

South Pasadena, California  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Sturgis, Michigan  
     
   Nutritional Products  

Temecula, California  
     
   Vascular Products  

Wiesbaden, Delkenheim, Germany  
     
   Diagnostic Products  

Witney, Oxon, England  
     
   Non-Reportable  

Worcester, Massachusetts  
     
   Pharmaceutical Products  

Zwolle, the Netherlands  
     
   Nutritional Products  

*    Leased
property    

          In
addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in seven other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, manufacturing facilities
are located in fourteen other countries. Abbott's facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.   

          In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott owns eight distribution centers. Abbott also has eighteen United
States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Columbus, Ohio (two   

  14  

locations);
Des Plaines, Illinois; East Windsor, New Jersey; Fairfield, California; Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Mountain View, California; North Chicago, Illinois; Parsippany, New Jersey;
Princeton, New Jersey; Redwood City, California; Santa Clara, California (two locations); Temecula, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, Abbott has research and
development facilities in Canada, Germany, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.   

          Except
as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants
and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.    

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January 31, 2009) those described
below. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate resolution should not
have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except where noted below as to a specific quarter.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in the Eastern District of Texas, in which New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. assert that Humira  infringes a patent
co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to Centocor. The complaint asserts that Abbott has willfully infringed the patent and seeks damages, including treble damages, but
does not seek injunctive relief. In March 2008, an arbitrator ruled that Abbott has a license to the patents at issue for a portion of Humira  sales. Non-licensed sales remain
at issue in the litigation. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the outcome of this litigation, its ultimate resolution could be material to cash flows or results of operations for a
quarter.   

          Abbott,
Fournier Industrie et Sante, and Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier) reached settlements of direct purchaser class action and direct purchaser opt-out claims and
claims brought by certain individual plaintiffs in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware regarding the sale of fenofibrate products. The terms of these settlements were
previously disclosed in Abbott's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 20, 2008. The remaining litigation, including claims brought by indirect purchasers and
twenty-six State Attorneys General,    State of Florida, et al.   , (filed in March 2008),    Alberto
Litter    (filed in August 2005),    Allied Services Division Welfare Fund and Hector Valdes    (filed in June 2005),     Cindy Cronin    (filed in
July 2005),    Diana Kim    (filed in June 2005),    Local 28
Sheet Metal Workers    (filed in July 2005),    Painters District Council No. 30 Health and Welfare Fund    (filed in June 2005),     Pennsylvania Employees
Benefit Trust Fund    (filed in June 2005),    Philadelphia Federation of Teachers Health and Welfare
Fund    (filed in July 2005),    Elaine M. Pullman    (filed in June 2005),    Charles M.
Shain    (filed in July 2005),    Vista Healthplan, Inc.    (filed in June 2005), and    Pacificare Health Systems,
Inc.    (filed in August 2005), seeking actual damages, treble damages, and other relief, is pending. A previously reported case pending in the United States District Court for
the District of Delaware,    Patrick Warren Proffitt, et. al.   , (filed in April 2008), was voluntarily dismissed in January 2009 and, one purported class
action filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California,    Paul T. Regan    (filed in July 2005), was voluntarily
dismissed in 2008.   

          Several
cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending against Abbott that allege generally that Abbott and
numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases,
brought by private plaintiffs, the United States Department of Justice, state Attorneys General, and other state government entities, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and
attorneys' fees. The federal court cases have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts   

  15  

under
the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL 1456   . MDL 1456 includes:
(a) a purported class action case in which plaintiffs seek to certify nationwide classes of Medicare Part B consumers and third party payors and other consumers, filed in June 2003;
(b) three state Attorneys General and a consolidated New York counties/City of New York suit, filed in June 2005; (c) a civil whistle-blower suit brought by the United States Department
of Justice, filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida in May 2006; and (d) a civil whistle-blower suit brought by Ven-A-Care of the
Florida Keys, Inc., unsealed against Abbott in August 2007 and in which the United States declined to intervene.
MDL 1456 also includes a purported class action case in which the plaintiffs seek to certify nationwide classes of Medicare Part B consumers and third party payors and other consumers, filed in
June 2003. Eighteen named defendants, including Abbott, collectively settled this case, subject to final approval of the district court. The MDL Court transferred the case brought by the Utah Attorney
General to Third Judicial District in Salt Lake County, Utah, in June 2008. In December 2008, Abbott settled the case brought by the State Attorney General on behalf of California. In addition,
several cases are pending against Abbott in state courts:    State of West Virginia   , filed in October 2001 in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West
Virginia;    Swanston   , filed in March 2002 in the Superior Court for Maricopa County, Arizona;    Commonwealth of
Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;    State of Ohio   , filed in March 2004 in the
Court of Common Pleas for Hamilton County, Ohio;    State of Wisconsin   , filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;     State of Alabama   ,
filed in January 2005 in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Alabama;    State of
Illinois   , filed in February 2005 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois;    County of Erie   , filed in March 2005 in the
Supreme Court of Erie County, New York;    State of Mississippi   , filed in October 2005 in the Circuit Court of Hinds County, Mississippi;     State of Hawaii   ,
filed in April 2006 in the First Circuit Court of Hawaii;    County of Oswego   , filed in
August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Oswego County, New York;    County of Schenectady   , filed in August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Schenectady County, New
York;    State of South Carolina    (on behalf of its state health plan), filed in August 2006 in the Court of Common Pleas, Fifth Judicial Circuit of
Richland County, South Carolina;    State of Alaska   , filed in October 2006 in the Superior Court for the Third Judicial District in Anchorage, Alaska;     State of Idaho   , filed in January 2007 in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District in Ada County, Idaho;    State of
Utah   , filed in November 2007 in the Third Judicial District in Salt Lake County, Utah; and    State of Kansas   , filed in October
2008 in the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas. Certain state agencies, including the Attorney General of Florida, are also investigating these practices. While it is not feasible to predict
with certainty the outcome of the proceedings and investigations related to pricing information for drugs reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid, their ultimate resolution could be material to cash
flows or results of operations for a quarter.   

          The
Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services in conjunction with the United States Department of Justice, through the United States
Attorneys for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, the Western District of Louisiana, and the Middle District of Louisiana are investigating the sales and marketing practices of Kos Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. In addition, the United States Attorney for Louisiana is investigating Kos' calculation and reporting of Medicaid rebates. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices
resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, and the Medicaid Rebate Statute in connection with the Medicare
and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. Abbott acquired Kos in December 2006, and these investigations relate to conduct that occurred prior to Abbott's acquisition.   

          In
addition, the United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for Maryland, is investigating the sales and marketing practices of Abbott for
Micardis , a drug co-promoted for (until March 31, 2006) and manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices
resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid
reimbursement paid to third parties.   

  16  

A
class action case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the name    Myla Nauman, Jane Roller
and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc.    The plaintiffs are former Abbott employees who allege that their transfer to Hospira, Inc., as part of the
spin-off of Hospira, adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and that in their transfer, Abbott breached a fiduciary duty to
plaintiffs involving employee benefits. The plaintiffs generally seek reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbott's employee benefit plans, or an award for the
employee benefits they have allegedly lost. Abbott filed a response denying all substantive allegations.   

          Several
cases are pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California that allege antitrust violations in connection with the 2003 Norvir
re-pricing. During the third quarter of 2008, Abbott entered into a settlement of the consolidated class action filed on behalf of individual consumers,    John
Doe 1    (filed in April 2004), and the lawsuit brought by third-party payors,    Service Employees International Health and Welfare
Fund    (filed in October 2004), with the amount of the settlement contingent upon the outcome of Abbott's appeal to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The remaining previously
reported cases, including three purported class actions on behalf of direct purchasers and one case filed by a competitor,    Rite Aid, Inc.    (filed in
December 2007),    Louisiana Wholesale Drug Company, Inc.    (filed in December 2007),    GlaxoSmithKline    (filed
in November 2007),    Meijer, Inc.    (filed in November 2007),    Rochester Drug Co-Operative, Inc.   
(filed in November 2007), and    Safeway, Inc.    (filed in October 2007), have been consolidated for discovery and trial. The plaintiffs seek damages,
injunctive relief, and costs.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in which Medtronic Vascular, Inc., Medtronic USA, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., and
Medtronic Vascular Galway, Ltd. (collectively Medtronic) and Evysio Medical Devices ULC (Evysio) claim that Abbott's stents, including the Multi-Link Vision  and
Xience V  Coronary stent systems, infringe certain Evysio stent design patents. Medtronic and Evysio seek damages, an injunction, and other relief. Evysio also sued in France,
Ireland (in which Medtronic is also a plaintiff), the United Kingdom, and Germany asserting infringement of certain of its patents. In each case, Abbott denies infringement and asserts that the
patents are invalid. In January 2009, the Paris First Instance Court found that two of Evysio's three French patents are invalid and that Abbott's modified design Vision and Xience stents do not
infringe the third patent. In April 2008, the United Kingdom High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, held that Abbott's modified design stents do not infringe any of the three Evysio
patents, two of the Evysio patents are invalid, and Abbott's original design stents do not infringe the third Evysio patent. Medtronic and Evysio did not appeal. In July 2008, the German Federal
Patent Court revoked the German patent Evysio was asserting.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights against Arterial Vascular Engineering, Inc. (now known as Medtronic Vascular, Inc.). In a case filed in 1998 in the United States District
Court for the District of Delaware, Abbott alleges that certain models of Medtronic's stents infringe four of Abbott's "Lau" patents, and seeks injunctive relief and damages. In February 2005, a jury
found that Abbott's Lau patents were valid and infringed by all the accused Medtronic stents, including its Driver  coronary stent. In September 2008, the court refused to enjoin Medtronic
from making and selling the infringing stents in the U.S. Subsequently, Medtronic appealed the infringement and validity decisions. The damages phase of the litigation awaits the outcome of the
appeal.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in which Johnson   Johnson, Inc. and Cordis Corporation, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson (collectively Johnson   Johnson), assert infringement of four Johnson   Johnson patents by Abbott's Xience V stent. Johnson   Johnson
seeks an injunction, an award of damages, and a determination of willful infringement. In January 2008, Cordis Corporation and Wyeth filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V stent infringes three   

  17  

additional
patents and seeking an injunction, an award of damages, and a determination of willful infringement. Abbott denies all substantive allegations.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas brought in August 2008 in which certain Medtronic, Inc. companies (Medtronic)
assert that Abbott's Xience V drug eluting stents infringe two Medtronic patents, which purport to cover stent coating methods. A second case is pending against Abbott in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas brought in July 2008 by Wall Cardiovascular Technologies, LLC in which it asserts that Abbott's stents, including Xience V, infringe a
patent purporting to cover the use of stents to treat restenosis. Medtronic and Wall each seeks an injunction, damages, and enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement. Abbott asserts that the
patents are not infringed, invalid and unenforceable. In December 2008, Medinol Limited sued Abbott in Ireland, the Netherlands, and Germany claiming that Abbott's Vision and Xience V stents
infringe one of its European stent design patents. In Germany, Medinol further asserts that Abbott's Multi-Link Penta  and Multi-Link Zeta  stents
infringe two German stent design patents. Medinol seeks damages and injunctions. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in each case.   

Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibrate tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Tricor ). In a case filed in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in February 2008, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratories Fournier, S.A., allege infringement of three patents and seek injunctive relief against
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. In a separate case filed in the Northern District of Illinois in November 2008, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratories Fournier, S.A., allege infringement of three
patents and seek injunctive relief against Biovail Laboratories International SRL. Each case has been transferred to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.   

Abbott
received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, in June 2008. The government is
investigating the sales and marketing activities of Abbott's and other companies' biliary stent products. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or
criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug Cosmetic Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third
parties.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (filed in December 2008), in which Bayer HealthCare LLC (Bayer) asserts that
Humira  infringes a patent owned by Bayer. The complaint seeks damages, including treble damages, but does not seek injunctive relief. On January 5, 2009, Abbott filed a declaratory
judgment action against Bayer in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts seeking a declaration that Abbott does not infringe Bayer's patent and that the patent is invalid
and unenforceable.    

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS            

None.   

  18  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed
by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board
meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the
board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed
by the chairman whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.   

          Abbott's
executive officers, their ages as of February 15, 2009, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal
occupations and employment for the past five years and the year of appointment to the earliest reported office are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott. There are no family
relationships between any corporate officers or directors.   

    Miles D. White, 53     

1999
to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1993.   

Richard W. Ashley, 65     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

John M. Capek, 47     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, Medical Devices.   

2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Abbott Vascular.   

  2006   Vice
President and President, Cardiac Therapies.   

  2005
to 2006   President, Guidant Vascular Intervention.   

  2003
to 2005   Vice President and General Manager, Bioabsorbable Vascular Solutions 
(a subsidiary of Guidant Corporation).   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Thomas C. Freyman, 54     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  2001
to 2004   Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1991.   

Holger A. Liepmann, 57     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Nutritional Products.   

  2006
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Global Nutrition.   

  2006   Executive
Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

19  

2004
to 2006   Senior Vice President, International Operations.   

  2001
to 2004   Vice President, Japan Operations, Abbott International Division.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Edward L. Michael, 52     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Diagnostic Products.   

  2007
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Diagnostics.   

2007  
Senior Vice President, Medical Products.   

  2003
to 2007   Vice President and President, Molecular Diagnostics.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1997.   

Laura J. Schumacher, 45     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.   

2005
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.   

  2003
to 2005   Vice President, Secretary and Deputy General Counsel.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

James L. Tyree, 55     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products.   

  2007
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2006  
Senior Vice President, Global Nutrition.   

  2005
to 2006   Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.   

  2001
to 2005   Vice President, Global Licensing/New Business Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Olivier Bohuon, 50     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, International Operations.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President, European Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

Thomas F. Chen, 59     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, International Nutrition.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.   

  2005
to 2006   Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia and Latin America.   

  2005   Vice
President, Nutrition International, Asia, Canada, Latin America.   

20  

1998
to 2005   Vice President, Abbott International, Pacific/Asia/Africa Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1998.   

Stephen R. Fussell, 51     

2005
to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.   

1999
to 2005   Vice President, Compensation and Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Robert B. Hance, 49     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Vascular.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.   

  2006  
Vice President and President, Vascular Solutions.   

2003
to 2006   Vice President and President, Abbott Vascular Devices.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

John C. Landgraf, 56     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2004
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2003   Vice
President, Quality Assurance and Compliance, Medical Products Group.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2000.   

Heather L. Mason, 48     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Latin America Pharmaceuticals.   

  2005
to 2007   Vice President, International Marketing.   

2001
to 2005   Vice President, Specialty Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Donald V. Patton Jr., 56     

2007
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

  2007  
Senior Vice President, Abbott Nutrition Products Division.   

  2006
to 2007   Vice President, Diagnostic Global Commercial Operations.   

2005
to 2006   Vice President, Commercial Operations.   

  2004
to 2005   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

21  

Mary T. Szela, 45     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals.   

  2007
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2006  
Vice President, Commercial Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2001
to 2006   Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Primary Care Operations.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Michael J. Warmuth, 46     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2008  
Vice President, Hematology Diagnostics.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2006
to 2007   Divisional Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2004
to 2006   Divisional Vice President of Quality, Global Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2007.   

Greg W. Linder, 52     

2001
to present   Vice President and Controller.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

22  

PART II            

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

    Principal Market     

          The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange
and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.   

Shareholders     

          There were 69,733 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December 31, 2008.   

    Dividends     

          Quarterly dividends of $.36 and $.325 per share were declared on common shares in 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          Abbott
Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22F). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  23  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    These
shares represent:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   68,183 in
October; 80,711 in November; and 87,700 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Laboratories, Limited Employee Stock Purchase
Plan   14,000 in October; 14,000 in November; and 4,000 in December.    

These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.   

2.    On
October 13, 2008, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $5 billion of its common shares, from time to
time.    

          On
December 2, 2008, Abbott Laboratories exchanged 14,870,195 of its common shares for 15,176,500 common shares of Abbott Laboratories owned by Sorenson Development, Incorporated,
a Utah corporation. No underwriters were involved and no commission or other remuneration was paid or given directly or indirectly for soliciting the exchange. The exchange was exempt from
registration under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933.   

  24  

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

1.    In
2006, Abbott recorded pre-tax charges of $2,014 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development primarily
related to the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.    
  25  

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

Financial Review            

          Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable
arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products
are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary
products are prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Sales in international markets are approximately 50 percent of consolidated
net sales.   

          The
worldwide launch of additional indications for    HUMIRA   , the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture,
the acquisitions of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., and Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, followed by the launch of the    Xience
V    drug eluting stent, the amendment ending the U.S.    Synagis    co-promotion agreement, the loss of patent protection
for some pharmaceutical products, and realized gains and unrealized losses on
the Boston Scientific common stock have impacted Abbott's sales, costs and financial position over the last three years.   

Pharmaceutical
research and development is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management and infectious diseases. In 2003, Abbott began
the worldwide launch of    HUMIRA    for rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for five additional indications, which increased     HUMIRA's    worldwide sales to
$4.5 billion in 2008 compared to $3.0 billion in 2007, and $2.0 billion in 2006. Abbott forecasts
worldwide    HUMIRA    sales to increase more than 25 percent in 2009. Abbott is studying two additional indications for     HUMIRA   . Substantial research and
development and selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of     HUMIRA   . In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. which complemented
Abbott's existing franchise in the dyslipidemia market and
strengthened the pharmaceutical pipeline for cholesterol management. Abbott's    Trilipix   , a next-generation product for management of
triglycerides and the first product approved for use in combination with a statin was launched in 2008. Increased generic competition has resulted in U.S. sales of     Omnicef    declining from
$637 million in 2006 to $25 million in 2008, and worldwide sales of clarithromycin declining from
$816 million in 2006 to $651 million in 2008. Abbott has seen generic competition begin in the second half of 2008 for    Depakote   , which had
U.S. sales of $1.3 billion in 2008.   

          On
December 31, 2006, the U.S. co-promotion agreement for    Synagis    terminated. Revenues for co-promotion of     Synagis    were $373 million in 2006. In
2007, Abbott's nutritional products businesses were reorganized into a worldwide business to better
leverage the opportunities available for strong nutritional brands. Significant efforts have been focused on capturing those opportunities, particularly in developing markets where growth has been
strong.   

          In
April 2006, Abbott acquired Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and began to integrate it with Abbott's vascular business. The acquisition
significantly improved Abbott's competitive position in this business that is characterized by rapid innovation. In 2008, Abbott received FDA approval to market the    Xience
V    drug eluting stent in the U.S. and in 2006 received European Union approval.    Xience V    became the market-leading drug eluting
stent in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2008.   

          In
April 2006, Abbott acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific in connection with Abbott's acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses
of Guidant. In 2007, the net loss charged to expense for the investment was $153 million. At December 31, 2007, Abbott held 26.4 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock.
In 2008, all of these shares were sold resulting in a small gain. Abbott's short- and long-term debt totaled $11.4 billion at December 31, 2008, largely incurred   

  26  

to
finance recent acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of capital expenditures and cash dividends have partially funded acquisitions over the last three years. At December 31, 2008,
Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's
Investors Service. Abbott's access to short-term financing has not been affected by the recent credit market conditions.   

          In
April 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the value and assets of the joint venture in a
tax-free exchange. Abbott received TAP's    Lupron    business in exchange for Abbott's 50 percent ownership in TAP.     Lupron's    U.S. results are now included
in the Pharmaceutical Products segment beginning in May 2008.   

          In
2009, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. Abbott announced the agreement to acquire Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO), a new line of business, in January of 2009.
The investment in AMO will be approximately $2.8 billion, including debt, and will be financed with operating cash flow and debt. AMO's sales are more than $1 billion per year. In the
pharmaceutical business, Abbott will continue maximizing the market potential for    HUMIRA    and continue to leverage the product and pipeline opportunities
of its lipid franchise. Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to focus on the therapeutic areas noted above with a significant portion of the development expenditures allocated
to new    HUMIRA    indications,    Trilipix   /Crestor fixed dose combination, ABT-874 (a biologic for
psoriasis and Crohn's disease) and pain relief medication, as well as several Phase I and Phase II clinical programs in neuroscience, oncology and Hepatitis C. In the vascular business,
Abbott will continue the launch of the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in the U.S. after the FDA's approval in 2008, and will focus on
development of its next generation drug eluting stent and its bioabsorbable stent. For diabetes care, Abbott will build upon the 2008 launch of the    FreeStyle Freedom
Lite    monitor in the U.S. In the other business segments, Abbott will focus on developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth segments of those markets.   

    Critical Accounting Policies     

             Sales Rebates      Approximately 47 percent of Abbott's
consolidated gross revenues are subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the
Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Nutritional Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program,
insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans, state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing
organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in
the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale
and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales
when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to 24 months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes
adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to approximately $3.8 billion,
$3.2 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, or 22.8 percent, 21.5 percent and 23.2 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately
$16.8 billion, $15.0 billion and $11.0 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales
would decrease net sales by approximately $168 million in 2008. Abbott considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to
related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $362 million, $325 million and $247 million for cash discounts in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, and $439 million, $269 million and $209 million for returns in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and
therefore can be reliably   

  27  

estimated.
Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.   

          Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that
measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the
supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In
addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably
determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the
WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical
redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2008, Abbott had the exclusive WIC business in 24 states.   

          In
the domestic pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and Wholesaler
Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the
rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third party market
data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track
sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and Abbott believes
they are reliable.   

          The
following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 70 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in
2008. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. (   dollars in millions   )   

28  

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. In 2007, adjustments were made to prior years' rebate accruals. The Medicaid and Medicare
rebate accrual was reduced by approximately $69 million and the WIC rebate accrual was increased by approximately $19 million. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of
claims submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other
government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.   

             Income Taxes      Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments.
Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country.
Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. On January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation
No. 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes," which changed the measurement of tax contingencies. Under this Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer
must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon
resolution of the benefit. Application of this Interpretation requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2005 are settled, and the income tax
returns for years after 2005 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries.   

             Pension and Post-Employment Benefits      Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care
to many of its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must
develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure
liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's
expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual
rates, which will not be known for decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Negative asset returns due to recent poor market
conditions and low interest rates have significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2008, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits)
recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $2.6 billion and $381 million, respectively.
Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for
post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period.
Footnote 5 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a
change would be limited to only one percentage point. On December 31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans." The provisions of this statement require the recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Adoption of this statement on December 31, 2006 resulted in a decrease in Abbott's shareholders' equity of approximately $1.3 billion.   

             Valuation of Intangible Assets      Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott
records at fair value. Those assets which do not yet have regulatory approval and for which there are no alternative uses are expensed as acquired in-process research and development, and
those that have regulatory approval are capitalized. Adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) "Business Combinations" on January 1, 2009 will result in acquired in-process research and
development assets   

  29  

acquired
in a business combination to be initially recorded as indefinite lived intangible assets. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between
companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net
cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation
experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions and calculations for acquisitions of significant intangibles. Abbott reviews intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net
cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is
usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill
is reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment of goodwill occurs. At December 31, 2008, goodwill and intangibles amounted to $10.0 billion and
$5.2 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets amounted to $787 million in 2008. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2008, 2007 or 2006.   

             Litigation      Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5 "Accounting for Contingencies." Under
SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is
recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional information becomes
known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the
minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed
to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Except for the cases discussed in footnote 8 for which Abbott is unable to estimate a loss,
if any, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $255 million to $495 million for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Reserves of approximately
$325 million have been recorded at December 31, 2008 for these proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by SFAS
No. 5.   

             Stock Compensation          Abbott records the fair value of stock options in its results of
operations. Since there is no market for trading employee stock options, management must use a fair value method. There is no certainty that the results of a fair value method would be the value at
which employee stock options would be traded for cash. Fair value methods require management to make several assumptions, the most significant of which are the selection of a fair value model, stock
price volatility and the average life of an option. Abbott has readily available grant-by-grant historical activity for several years in its option administration system that
it uses in developing some of its assumptions. Abbott uses the Black-Scholes method to value stock options. Abbott uses both historical volatility of its stock price and the implied volatility of
traded options to develop the volatility assumptions. Abbott uses the historical grant activity, combined with expectations about future exercise activity, to develop the average life assumptions.
Abbott has also used the historical grant data to evaluate whether certain holders of stock options exercised their options differently than other holders and has not found any differentiating pattern
among holders.   

  30  

Results of Operations     

    Sales     

          The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years:   

Worldwide
2008 sales growth compared to 2007 reflects unit growth and the positive effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Worldwide 2007 sales compared to 2006 reflect the
acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, the
Pharmaceutical Products segment had an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) to co-promote and distribute three of its products in the U.S. In 2005, Abbott and BI amended the agreement
and effective January 1, 2006, Abbott no longer distributed or recorded sales for distribution activities for the BI products although Abbott recorded a small amount of co-promotion
revenue in 2006. The increases in sales for 2006 excluding BI products were   

  31  

11.6 percent
for total net sales, 12.3 percent for total U.S. sales and 7.8 percent for Pharmaceutical Products segment sales. Sales growth in 2007 for the Nutritional Products
segment reflects the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of    Synagis    in 2006. Excluding sales of     Synagis    in 2006, Nutritional Products segment sales
increased 11.3 percent.   

          A
comparison of significant product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.   

Increased
sales of    HUMIRA    and the addition of    Lupron    sales in 2008 accounted for the
majority of the sales increase for U.S. Specialty products in 2008. Increased sales of    HUMIRA    and     Depakote    accounted for the majority of the sales
increases for U.S. Specialty products in 2007 and 2006. U.S. sales of     HUMIRA    were $2.2 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. U.S. Primary Care sales
in 2008 were
impacted by a significant decrease in sales of    Omnicef    due to generic
competition, partially offset by increased sales of    Niaspan    and the    TriCor/Trilipix    franchise. U.S.
Primary Care sales in 2007 were favorably impacted by sales of    Niaspan   , a new product from the acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the
fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, increased sales of    TriCor    in 2007 and 2006 favorably impacted U.S. Primary Care sales. These increases were
partially offset by lower sales of    Omnicef    in 2008 and 2007 and lower U.S. sales of    Biaxin    in all three
years due primarily to the introduction of generic competition. U.S. sales of    Omnicef    were $25 million, $235 million and
$637 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and U.S. sales of    Biaxin    were $14 million, $36 million and $151 million
in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Increased sales volume of    HUMIRA    in all three years favorably impacted International Pharmaceuticals sales,
partially offset by decreased sales volume in 2008 and 2006 due to generic competition for clarithromycin. International sales of    HUMIRA    were
$2.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $868 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. International Pediatric Nutritionals sales increases were due primarily to volume growth in
developing countries. International sales in 2008 and 2007 were also favorably impacted by the effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to
non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in footnote 1 to the consolidated financial
statements. Related net sales were $111 million, $184 million and $199 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          The
expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. Significant ongoing generic activities and
significant patent and license expirations in the next three years are as follows. The U.S. composition of matter patent for    Depakote    expired in 2008.
Abbott has seen generic competition begin in the second half of 2008 for    Depakote   , which had U.S. sales of $1.3 billion in 2008.   

  32  

Operating Earnings     

          Gross profit margins were 57.3 percent of net sales in 2008, 55.9 percent in 2007 and 56.3 percent in 2006. The
increase in the gross profit margin in 2008 was due, in part, to favorable product mix and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. The decrease in the gross profit margin in 2007 was due, in part,
to the unfavorable impact in 2007 of the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of    Synagis    in 2006 as well as generic competition for     Omnicef    and    Biaxin    sales in 2007. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2006 was due to favorable
product mix, primarily as a result of decreased sales of Boehringer Ingelheim products that had lower margins than other products in the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Restructuring charges,
discussed below, reduced the gross profit margins in 2008, 2007 and 2006 by 0.4 percentage points, 0.7 percentage points and 1.1 percentage points, respectively. Gross profit
margins in all years were also affected by productivity improvements, higher commodity costs, higher project expenses for new products, higher manufacturing capacity costs for anticipated unit growth
and the effects of inflation.   

          In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and Pharmaceutical Products
segments. Higher commodity costs unfavorably impacted the gross profit margins for the Nutritional Products segment in 2008 and 2007 and pricing pressures unfavorably impacted the gross profit margin
in 2006.   

          Research
and development expense, excluding acquired in-process and collaborations research and development, was $2.7 billion in 2008, $2.5 billion in 2007 and
$2.3 billion in 2006 and represented increases of 7.3 percent in 2008, 11.1 percent in 2007 and 23.8 percent in 2006. The effect of recording compensation expense relating
to share-based awards in 2006 and additional costs associated with Abbott's decision to discontinue the commercial development of the    ZoMaxx   
drug-eluting stent increased research and development expenses by 6.3 percentage points over 2005. The increases in 2007 and 2006 were also affected by the acquisitions of Guidant's
vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses in April 2006 and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. These increases also reflect increased spending to support
pipeline programs, including new indications for    HUMIRA,    and    Trilipix   ,     Trilipix   /Crestor fixed-dose
combination, ABT-874 (a biologic for psoriasis and Crohn's disease), pain relief medication and     Xience V,    as well as several Phase I and Phase II clinical programs in neuroscience, oncology
and Hepatitis C. The majority of research
and development expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

          Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 13.9 percent in 2008 compared to increases of 16.7 percent in 2007 and 15.5 percent in 2006. The 2008 increase
reflects the settlement of litigation relating to    TriCor   , which increased selling, general and administration expenses by 3.1 percentage points.
The 2007 increase reflects the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. The 2006 increase reflects recording
compensation expense relating to share-based awards, a philanthropic contribution to the Abbott Fund and the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses. These
items increased selling, general and administrative expenses by 8.6 percentage points over 2005. The remaining increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were due primarily to
increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for    HUMIRA    and the continuing launch of     Xience V   , as
well as spending on other marketed pharmaceutical products. Increases in all three years also reflect inflation and additional selling and
marketing support primarily in the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business     

          On April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly
splitting the value and assets of the joint venture. Abbott exchanged its 50 percent equity   

  33  

interest
in TAP for the assets, liabilities and employees related to TAP's    Lupron    business. Subsequent to the conclusion of the joint venture, TAP was
merged into two Takeda entities. The exchange of Abbott's investment in TAP for TAP's    Lupron    business resulted in a gain at closing of approximately
$94 million. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S. income tax purposes.   

          Beginning
on May 1, 2008, Abbott began recording U.S.    Lupron    net sales and costs in its operating results and no longer records
income from the TAP joint venture. TAP's sales of    Lupron    were $182 million for the four months ended April 30, 2008 and
$645 million and $662 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Abbott also receives payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to
products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda, which are recorded by Abbott as Other (income) expense, net as earned. Such payments, which are
subject to tax, are expected to approximate $1.4 billion over the five-year period beginning on May 1, 2008.   

          The
exchange transaction was accounted for as a sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP and as an acquisition of TAP's    Lupron    business
under SFAS No. 141 "Business Combinations." The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the     Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to
Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

          For
the acquired    Lupron    business, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily    Lupron   
product rights, of approximately $700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related primarily to the intangible assets of approximately
$260 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 15 years. Abbott has also agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events are not achieved on the
development assets retained by Takeda. These amounts were recorded as a liability at closing in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Related deferred tax assets of approximately
$410 million were also recorded, resulting in an after-tax liability of approximately $700 million. Of the $1.1 billion, Abbott made a tax-deductible
payment of $200 million in 2008 and Abbott will make a tax-deductible payment of approximately $120 million in 2009. If the remaining payments are not required, the liability
would be reduced and a gain would be recorded.   

          The
50 percent-owned joint venture was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Summarized financial information for TAP follows below. The results for 2008 include
results through April 30. (   dollars in millions   )   

In
the fourth quarter of 2008, Abbott sold its spine business for approximately $360 million in cash, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately
$147 million which is presented as Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the accompanying statement of income. The operations and financial position of the spine business
are not presented as discontinued operations because the effects would not be significant.   

    Restructurings     

          In 2008, Abbott management approved a plan to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve
efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. This plan will result in pretax charges of approximately $370 million over the next several years. These charges include employee-related   

  34  

costs
of approximately $110 million, accelerated depreciation of approximately $75 million, and other related exit costs of approximately $185 million, mainly related to product
transfers. In 2008, Abbott recorded a charge to Cost of products sold of approximately $129 million under the plan. Additional charges of approximately $16 million were recorded in 2008
relating to this restructuring, primarily for
accelerated depreciation. The remainder of the charges will occur through 2011 as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of
countries and product transition timelines. The following summarizes the activity for this restructuring:    (dollars in millions)   

In
2008, 2007 and 2006, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $36 million, $107 million and $210 million,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $94 million and $181 million in 2007 and
2006, respectively, is classified as cost of products sold, $3 million and $29 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, as research and development and $36 million and
$10 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, as selling, general and administrative. Fair value for the determination of the amount of asset impairments was determined primarily based on a
discounted cash flow method. An additional $81 million, $90 million and $70 million were subsequently recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to these
restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. In addition, Abbott implemented facilities restructuring plans in 2007 related to the acquired operations of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
which resulted in an increase to goodwill of approximately $52 million. Abbott expects to incur up to an additional $21 million in future periods for these restructuring plans, primarily
for accelerated depreciation. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

35  

Interest expense and Interest (income)     

          In 2008, interest expense decreased primarily as a result of lower interest rates and interest income increased primarily as the result
of higher investment balances. Interest expense increased in 2007 and 2006 due primarily to higher borrowings as a result of the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular
solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Abbott's investment in the Boston Scientific common stock and note receivable.   

    Other (income) expense, net     

          As described above, Abbott recorded a gain of approximately $94 million in connection with the dissolution of the TAP
Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture in 2008, which is included in Other (income) expense, net. Other (income) expense, net for 2008 also includes a gain of approximately
$52 million on the sale of an equity investment accounted for as an available-for-sale investment. The remainder of Other (income) expense, net for 2008 relates
primarily to contractual payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of
products retained by Takeda. Other (income) expense, net for 2007 includes a $190 million fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock and a
realized gain of $37 million on the sales of Boston Scientific common stock. Other (income) expense, net for 2007 and 2006 includes fair value gain adjustments of $28 million and
$91 million, respectively, to certain derivative financial instruments included with the investment in Boston Scientific common stock.   

Taxes on Earnings     

          The income tax rates on earnings from continuing operations were 19.2 percent in 2008, 19.3 percent in 2007 and
24.6 percent in 2006. Taxes on earnings from continuing operations in 2006 reflect the effect of the tax rates applied to acquired in-process research and development and the
resolution of prior years' income tax audits and the effect of other discrete tax items. For 2006, the tax rates applied to acquired in-process and collaborations research and development
increased the effective tax rate by 6.6 percentage points and the effect of the income tax audit resolution and other discrete tax items decreased the effective tax rate by
5.5 percentage points. Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of between 17.5 percent and 18.0 percent in 2009.   

    Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

          In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. for cash of approximately $3.8 billion, net of cash held by
Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., to expand Abbott's presence in the lipid management market and to provide several on-market and late-stage pipeline products. Kos
Pharmaceuticals Inc. was a specialty pharmaceutical company that developed and marketed proprietary medications for the treatment of chronic cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases.
This business was acquired on December 13, 2006 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was
financed primarily with short-term debt. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $1.3 billion for acquired in-process research and development,
intangible assets of $821 million, goodwill (primarily non-deductible) of $1.6 billion and net liabilities, primarily deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition of
$331 million. Acquired intangible assets are being amortized over 4 to 15 years. Non-deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income
in 2006.   

          In
order to expand Abbott's presence in the growing vascular market, Abbott acquired Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 for
approximately $4.1 billion, in cash, in connection with Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. In addition, Abbott agreed to pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon
government approvals to market the    Xience V   

  36  

drug-eluting
stent in the U.S. and in Japan. In 2008, the FDA approved the marketing of    Xience V    and Abbott paid Boston Scientific
$250 million, resulting in the recording of additional goodwill. Government approval in Japan is anticipated in late 2009 or early 2010 which will also result
in the recording of additional goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $665 million for acquired in-process research and development, intangible
assets of $1.2 billion, goodwill (primarily deductible) of $1.7 billion and tangible net assets of $580 million. Acquired intangible assets are being amortized over 4 to
15 years. Deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible assets acquired consist primarily of property and equipment of
approximately $530 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $250 million and inventories of approximately $120 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade
accounts payable, litigation reserves and other liabilities.   

          Had
the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          In
order to facilitate Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant, Abbott also acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific and
loaned $900 million to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. The common stock was valued at $1.3 billion and the note receivable was valued at $829 million at the
acquisition date. In connection with the acquisition of the shares, Boston Scientific was entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbott's sale of the shares. In addition, Boston
Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares. Abbott recorded a net derivative financial instruments liability of
$59 million for the gain-sharing derivative financial instrument liability and the interest derivative financial instrument asset. The effect of recording the shares, the loan to
Boston Scientific and the derivative financial instruments at fair value on the date of acquisition resulted in the recording of additional goodwill of approximately $204 million. Changes in
the fair value of the derivative financial instruments, net were recorded in Other (income) expense, net.   

Subsequent Event   Business Combination     

          In January 2009, Abbott announced an agreement to acquire Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO), a marketer of ophthalmic surgical
technology and devices, as well as eye care solutions, for approximately $2.8 billion, in cash and debt, to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population
growth and demographic shifts. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2009. AMO's sales are more than $1 billion per year.   

Financial Condition     

    Cash Flow     

          Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations amounted to $7.0 billion, $5.2 billion and
$5.3 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cash from operating activities of continuing operations in 2008 compared to 2007 is higher due to higher operating earnings, decreased prepaid
expenses and other assets, and increased trade accounts payable and other liabilities. Cash from operating activities of continuing operations in 2007 and 2006 compared to 2005 is higher due to higher
net earnings adjusted for after-tax non-cash charges for acquired in-process research and development in 2006 and share-based compensation and higher contributions
to retirement benefit plans in 2005 compared to 2007 and 2006; partially offset by higher income tax payments in 2006, including tax payments related to the 2005 remittances of foreign earnings under
the American Jobs Creation Act. Abbott funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, $200 million was funded to the main domestic pension.
Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $700 million in 2009 and $200 million annually, thereafter. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities
to continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends.   

  37  

Debt and Capital     

          At December 31, 2008, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by
Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $5.3 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a
$2.3 billion facility expires in December 2009 and a $3.0 billion facility expires in 2012. Abbott's access to short-term financing has not been affected by the recent credit
market conditions.   

          In
2006, the board of directors authorized the purchase of $2.5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time and no shares were purchased under this authorization in 2006.
In 2008 and 2007, Abbott purchased approximately 19.0 million of its common shares in each period at a cost of approximately $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively under this
authorization. Effective in the fourth quarter of 2008, no more purchases of common shares will be made from the 2006 authorization. In October 2008, the board of directors authorized the purchase of
up to $5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time and 146,400 shares were purchased under this authorization in 2008 at a cost of approximately $8 million.   

Under
a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2006, Abbott issued $3.5 billion of long-term debt in 2007 that matures in
2012 through 2037 with interest rates ranging from 5.15 percent to 6.15 percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down short-term borrowings that were incurred to
partially fund the acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. Under the same registration statement, Abbott issued $4.0 billion of long-term debt in 2006 that matures in 2009
through 2016 with interest rates ranging from 5.375 percent to 5.875 percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down domestic commercial paper borrowings that were incurred to
partially fund the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses.   

In
2009, the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., the funding of Abbott's main domestic pension plan and the payment of long-term debt will be financed with
operating cash flow and debt.   

    Working Capital     

          Working capital was $5.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2007. At
December 31, 2006, current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $669 million as a result of increased short-term borrowings used to acquire Kos
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2006.   

    Capital Expenditures     

          Capital expenditures of $1.3 billion in 2008, $1.7 billion in 2007 and $1.3 billion in 2006 were principally for
upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, investments in information technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with
customers.   

  38  

Contractual Obligations     

          The following table summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008:     (dollars in millions)   

(a)    Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.    

    Contingent Obligations     

          Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other
companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other
parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these
agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on
the occurrence of certain events. In connection with the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, Abbott will pay to Boston Scientific $250 million
upon government approval to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in Japan. Government approval is anticipated in late 2009 or early 2010.
In addition, Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off of Hospira and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices
in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.   

    Recently Issued Accounting Standards     

          In 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007) "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests
in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51." Abbott will adopt these standards on January 1, 2009. Statement No. 141 (revised 2007) will
impact Abbott primarily in five areas: acquired in-process research and development will be accounted for as an indefinite lived intangible asset until approval or discontinuation rather
than as expense; acquisition costs will be expensed rather than added to the cost of an acquisition; restructuring costs in connection with an acquisition will be expensed rather than added to the
cost of an acquisition; the fair value of contingent consideration at the date of an acquisition will be included in the cost of an acquisition; and the fair
value of contingent liabilities that are more likely than not of occurrence will be recorded at the date of an acquisition. The effect of these changes will be applicable to acquisitions on or after
January 1, 2009. Adoption of Statement No. 160 will not have a material effect on Abbott.   

  39  

Legislative Issues     

          Abbott's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation throughout the world. Abbott expects
debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if legislation is enacted, it could change access to health care
products and services, or reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in
general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K.   

    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     

          Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  40  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

Financial Instruments and Risk Management            

    Investment in Boston Scientific Common Stock and Note Receivable     

          At December 31, 2007, Abbott held 26.4 million shares, or approximately $300 million of Boston Scientific common
stock. In 2008 all of these shares were sold resulting in a small gain. Abbott also has a $900 million loan, due in April 2011, to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and, as such, is subject to credit risk.   

    Other Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions, excluding Boston
Scientific. The market value of these investments was approximately $105 million and $193 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. Abbott monitors these
investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease
in the share prices of these investments would decrease their fair value at December 31, 2008 by approximately $21 million. (A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably
possible near-term change in share prices.)   

    Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value
of these investments was approximately $42 million and $37 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No individual investment is in excess of $13 million.
Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.   

    Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion,
respectively, to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt due in 2009 through 2017. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not
use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. At December 31, 2008, Abbott had
$1.0 billion of domestic commercial paper outstanding with an average annual interest rate of 0.2% with an average remaining life of 11 days. The fair value of long-term debt
at December 31, 2008 and 2007 amounted to $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively (average interest rates of 5.2% and 5.0%, respectively) with maturities through 2037. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of current and long-term investment securities amounted to $1.8 billion and $896 million, respectively. A hypothetical
100-basis point change in the interest rates would not have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably
possible near-term change in rates.)   

    Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany
loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are
generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Abbott held $8.3 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively, of such
contracts, which mature in the next twelve months.   

          In
addition, certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated
intercompany   

  41  

purchases
by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses will be included
in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, Abbott held $129 million and $281 million,
respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.   

          Abbott
has designated approximately $585 million of foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly,
changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007:    (dollars in
millions)   

42  

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statements:  

Consolidated Statement of Earnings  

44  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  

45  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  

46  

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment  

48  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

49  

Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

73  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

74  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Financial Statements:  

Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income  

76  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

77  

Consolidated Balance Sheets  

78  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity  

79  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

80  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

92  

43  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Earnings              (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)     

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  44  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  45  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)            

46  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)             

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  47  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   (dollars in thousands except per share data)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  48  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

NATURE OF BUSINESS   Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.   

          CONCENTRATION
OF RISK AND GUARANTEES   Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or
geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 27 percent, 25 percent and 23 percent of trade receivables as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Product warranties are not significant.   

          Abbott
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts
accounted for at fair value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott
becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an
estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott
periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events. In
connection with the spin-off of Hospira, Inc., Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off and certain potential liabilities, if any,
related to alleged improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.   

          BASIS
OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany
transactions. The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November 30, due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. No events occurred related to these foreign
subsidiaries in December 2008, 2007 and 2006 that materially affected the financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

          USE
OF ESTIMATES   The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other
post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales
incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily
available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for
shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary.
Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is
recorded over the periods earned.   

          INCOME
TAXES   On January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." Under this
Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest
amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be   

  49  

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

realized
upon resolution of the benefit. Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the
financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted
to the parent company. Deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Interest and
penalties on income tax obligations are included in taxes on income.   

          PENSION
AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS   Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the
service attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected
return on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains
are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method. On December 31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 "Employers'
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans." This statement requires recognition of the deferrals on the balance sheet with a corresponding charge to Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). Adoption of this statement on December 31, 2006 resulted in a decrease in Abbott's shareholders' equity of approximately $1.3 billion.   

          FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS   On January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted SFAS No. 157 "Fair Value Measurements." Adoption of the provisions of this standard did not
have a material effect on Abbott's financial position. For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, total fair value is the published market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar
assets or liabilities, adjusted for contract restrictions and other terms specific to that asset or liability. For these items, a significant portion of fair value is derived by reference to quoted
prices of similar assets or liabilities in active markets. For all remaining assets and liabilities, fair value is derived using a fair value model, such as a discounted cash flow model or
Black-Scholes model. Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash
flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market
participants. Intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.   

          SHARE-BASED
COMPENSATION   The value of stock options and restricted stock awards and units are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the
vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense.   

          LITIGATION  
Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable
losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.   

          CASH,
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS   Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less. Except
for Abbott's investment in the common stock of Boston Scientific, investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair
value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Beginning on January 1, 2007, the investment in the common stock of
Boston Scientific was accounted for as a trading security with changes in fair value recorded in income. Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock   

  50  

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

exchanges
are recorded at cost. Investments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to
maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as interest income.   

Abbott
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the
investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and
the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other
(income) expense, net.   

          INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.   

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following
table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment:   

PRODUCT
LIABILITY   Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Abbott carried third-party insurance coverage in amounts that reflect
historical loss experience, which does not include coverage for sizable losses. Subsequent to 2008, product liability losses will be self-insured.   

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the
milestone results are achieved.   

  51  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information     

In
2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159 "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities." SFAS No. 159 allows companies to measure specific financial assets and liabilities at fair value, such as debt or equity investments. The fair value option for the investment in
Boston Scientific common stock was applied effective January 1, 2007. Abbott applied the fair value option to its investment in Boston Scientific stock under SFAS No. 159 because, unlike
its other equity investments, the Boston Scientific stock is not a strategic investment and Abbott was required to dispose of the stock no later than October 2008. Abbott was subject to a limitation
on the amount of shares it may sell in any one month through October 2007 and Abbott did not reacquire the Boston Scientific shares it sold. Accordingly, since at adoption, realized gains or losses
were expected in the near future, the fair value option better
represented the near-term expected earnings impact from sales of the stock. Under the fair value option, any cumulative unrealized gains or losses on an equity investment previously
accounted for as an available-for-sale security is recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of adoption of the standard. The pretax and
after tax adjustment to Earnings employed in the business upon adoption was $297 million and $189 million, respectively, and the fair value and carrying amount of the investment before
and after adoption was approximately $1.0 billion. The pretax and after tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $303 million and $182 million,
respectively. The effect of the adoption on deferred income taxes was not significant.   

          As
described in footnote 3, Abbott recorded a gain of approximately $94 million in connection with the dissolution of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture in
2008, which is included in Other (income) expense, net. Other (income) expense, net for 2008 also includes a gain of approximately $52 million on the sale of an equity investment accounted for
as an available-for-sale investment. The remainder of Other (income) expense, net for 2008 relates primarily to contractual payments based on specified development, approval
and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda. Other (income) expense, net for 2007 includes a
$190 million fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock and a realized gain of $37 million on the sales of Boston Scientific common stock.
Other (income) expense, net for 2007 and 2006 includes fair value gain adjustments of   

  52  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

$28 million
and $91 million, respectively, to certain derivative financial instruments included with the investment in Boston Scientific common stock.   

(a)    Accrued
wholesaler chargeback rebates of    $   210, $157 and $123 at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, are netted in trade receivables because Abbott's customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.    

53  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

          On
December 31, 2006, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans." Adoption of this
statement resulted in a decrease in Abbott's shareholders' equity of $1.3 billion net of taxes of approximately $733 million.   

For
the acquired    Lupron    business in 2008, as discussed in footnote 3, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily     Lupron    product rights, of approximately
$700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related to the
intangible assets of approximately $260 million. Abbott also recorded a liability of approximately $1.1 billion relating to an agreement to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and
development events are not achieved on the development assets retained by Takeda. Related deferred tax assets of approximately $410 million were also recorded, resulting in an
after-tax liability of approximately $700 million. The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the     Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to
Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

    Note 3   Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business     

On April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the value and assets of the joint venture.
Abbott exchanged its 50 percent equity interest in TAP for the assets, liabilities and employees related to TAP's    Lupron    business. Subsequent to
the conclusion of the joint venture, TAP was merged into two Takeda entities. The exchange of Abbott's investment in TAP for TAP's    Lupron    business
resulted in a gain at closing of approximately $94 million. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S.
income tax purposes.   

          Beginning
on May 1, 2008, Abbott began recording U.S.    Lupron    net sales and costs in its operating results and no longer records
income from the TAP joint venture. TAP's sales of    Lupron    were $182 million for the four months ended April 30, 2008 and
$645 million and $662 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Abbott also receives payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to
products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda, which are recorded by Abbott as Other (income) expense, net as earned. Such payments, which are
subject to tax, are expected to approximate $1.4 billion over the five-year period beginning on May 1, 2008.   

          The
exchange transaction was accounted for as a sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP and as an acquisition of TAP's    Lupron    business
under SFAS No. 141 "Business Combinations." The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the     Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to
Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

          For
the acquired    Lupron    business, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily    Lupron   
product rights, of approximately $700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related primarily to the intangible assets of approximately
$260 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 15 years. Abbott has also agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events   

  54  

Note 3   Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business (Continued)    

are
not achieved on the development assets retained by Takeda. These amounts were recorded as a liability at closing in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Related deferred tax assets of
approximately $410 million were also recorded, resulting in an after-tax liability of approximately $700 million. Of the $1.1 billion, Abbott made a
tax-deductible payment of $200 million in 2008 and Abbott will make a tax-deductible payment of approximately $120 million in 2009. If the remaining payments are
not required, the liability would be reduced and a gain would be recorded.   

          The
50 percent-owned joint venture was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Summarized financial information for TAP follows below. The results for 2008 include
results through April 30.    (dollars in millions)   

In
the fourth quarter of 2008, Abbott sold its spine business for approximately $360 million in cash, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately
$147 million which is presented as Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the accompanying statement of income. The operations and financial position of the spine business
are not presented as discontinued operations because the effects would not be significant.   

    Note 4   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases
by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $129 million, $281 million and $768 million at December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Abbott records the contracts at fair value, resulting in
charges of $2 million and $12 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and a credit of $16 million to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2006. Ineffectiveness
recorded in 2008, 2007 or 2006 was not significant. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2008 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally
through the next twelve months.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for
intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts
require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade
payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the resulting gains or losses
reflected in income as Net foreign exchange (gain) loss. At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Abbott held $8.3 billion, $5.5 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively, of such
foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries of approximately $585 million and
approximately $1.7 billion as of   

  55  

Note 4   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net
of tax, resulting in charges of $134 million and $72 million to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

Abbott
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006 to manage its
exposure to changes in the fair value of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, of fixed-rate debt due 2009 through 2017. These contracts are designated as fair value
hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a
fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that portion of the debt. Abbott records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate
debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2008, 2007 and 2006.   

Gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $55 million and $(23) million, respectively, at December 31,
2008; $108 million and $(3) million, respectively, at December 31, 2007 and $21 million and $(304) million, respectively, at December 31, 2006.   

          The
carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments
approximate their estimated fair values. The counter parties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from
nonperformance by these counter parties.   

56  

Note 4   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:     (dollars in
millions)   

In connection with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture, Abbott recorded derivative financial assets and
liabilities related to stock options previously granted to TAP's employees. The amounts of these assets and liabilities were calculated using both the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the
intrinsic value of the options. From April 30, 2008 to December 31, 2008, both the assets and liabilities decreased by approximately $29 million. The effect of the changes in
these assets and liabilities substantially offset each other. In addition, Abbott received investments in 2008 that are valued using significant unobservable inputs. The recorded value of these
investments did not change significantly. In 2007, adjustments to record a derivative financial instrument liability whose value was derived using significant unobservable inputs resulted in a credit
to Other (income) expense, net, in the amount of $25 million. The value of this derivative financial instrument liability was zero at December 31, 2007.   

  57  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits     

Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and post-employment
medical and dental benefit plans is as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $1.3 billion, $1.8 billion and
$1.5 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $4.7 billion, $4.9 billion and
$4.7 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $4.2 billion, $697 million and $544 million, respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $4.8 billion,
$770 million and   

  58  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

  $592 million,
respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were $3.3 billion, $84 million and $22 million, respectively.   

Other
comprehensive income (loss) for 2008 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $34 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial
losses of $1.6 billion for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $29 million and $21 million, respectively, and net actuarial
gains of $19 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2007 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $81 million and
$4 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $341 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $55 million and
$22 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $96 million for medical and dental plans. The pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior service cost (credits) included in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2008 that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2009 is $61 million and $4 million,
respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $32 million and $(22) million, respectively, for medical and dental plans.   

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

59  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

          The
discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The
health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A
one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2008, by $193 million/$(157) million, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then
ended by approximately $23 million/$(18) million.   

          Approximately
58 percent of Abbott's U.S. defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans assets are invested in equity securities, 30 percent in fixed income
securities, and the remainder in other securities, which consist of investment partnerships that employ diverse investment strategies across a wide variety of asset classes and financial instruments.
The investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other securities is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity securities, and lower return, less
volatile fixed income securities. Abbott's domestic plans are invested in diversified portfolios of public-market equity and fixed-income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of
markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The plans do not directly hold any securities of Abbott. Abbott's
international defined benefit plans are invested approximately 70 percent in equities and 30 percent in fixed income securities.   

          The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment
portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market
conditions.   

          Abbott
funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, $200 million was funded to the main domestic pension plan. International
pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $700 million in 2009 and $200 million annually thereafter.   

Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans, are as follows:
(   dollars in millions   )   

The
Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $129 million in 2008, $119 million in 2007 and
$102 million in 2006.   

          Abbott
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the
service lives of the employees.   

  60  

Note 6   Taxes on Earnings     

Taxes on earnings from continuing operations reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on
future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are
intended to be remitted to the parent company. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely
in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $14.9 billion at December 31, 2008. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes
not provided on these earnings. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2005 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2005 are open. There are numerous other income tax
jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

Earnings
from continuing operations before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings from continuing operations, were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

Differences
between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

61  

Note 6   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

          As
of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total deferred tax assets were $5.4 billion, $3.6 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, and total deferred tax
liabilities were $1.4 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences
that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

On
January 1, 2007, Abbott adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." Under this Interpretation, in order to
recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than
50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Adoption of this Interpretation did not have a material impact on Abbott's financial position. The following table summarizes
the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits without regard to reduction in tax liabilities or additions to deferred tax assets and liabilities if such unrecognized tax benefits were settled.
(   dollars in millions   )   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is approximately     $   1.4 billion. Abbott believes that it is reasonably possible that unrecognized
tax benefits will be settled within the next twelve months as a
result of concluding various tax matters. Abbott expects the range of the decrease in the recorded amounts of unrecognized tax benefits, primarily as a result of cash adjustments, to range from
$400 million to $650 million, arising from the conclusion of these tax matters.   

  62  

Note 7   Segment and Geographic Area Information     

Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold directly to retailers,
wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. Abbott's reportable segments are as follows:   

             Pharmaceutical Products      Worldwide sales of a broad line of pharmaceuticals. For segment reporting purposes, two
pharmaceutical divisions are aggregated and reported as the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

             Nutritional Products      Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products.   

             Diagnostic Products      Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial
laboratories and alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, three diagnostic divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.   

Vascular Products      Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure products.   

          Abbott's
underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent
with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the
cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. For acquisitions prior to 2006,
substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not allocated to segments. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of
Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.    (dollars in
millions)   

(a)    Net
sales and operating earnings for 2008 and 2007 were favorably affected by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar and were unfavorably affected by the
relatively stronger U.S. dollar in 2006.
      (b)    Additions
to long-term assets for the Pharmaceutical Products segment includes acquired intangible assets of $700 in 2008 and $821 in 2006 and
goodwill of $1,590 in 2006 and for the Vascular Products segment, includes goodwill of $321 and $1,688 in 2008 and 2006, respectively, and acquired intangible assets of $1,195 in 2006.    
  63  

Note 7   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(c)    The
decrease in the Nutritional Products segment operating earnings in 2007 was primarily due to the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of     Synagis    in 2006.    

(d)    The
increase in share-based compensation in 2007 is partially due to the granting of replacement stock options as a result of the increase in the market
value of Abbott common stock.
      (e)    Other,
net for 2007 includes $197 for restructuring plans; $256 for acquisition integration and related costs primarily associated with the acquisitions of
Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. and a $190 fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific
common stock.    

64  

Note 7   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(f)    Sales
by country are based on the country that sold the product.   

    Note 8   Litigation and Environmental Matters     

Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state
remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott
has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $3 million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $15 million.   

          There
are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbott's products infringe their patents. In one of those disputes, filed in April 2007, Abbott is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss, if any, and no reserve has been recorded. Abbott's acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. resulted in the assumption of various cases and investigations and Abbott has
recorded reserves related to several of those cases and investigations.   

          There
are several civil actions pending brought by individuals or entities that allege generally that Abbott and numerous pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing
information relating to the average wholesale price of certain pharmaceutical products in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement. Civil actions have also been brought against Abbott,
and in some cases other members of the pharmaceutical industry, by state attorneys general seeking to recover alleged damages on behalf of state Medicaid programs. In May 2006, Abbott was notified
that the U.S. Department of Justice intervened in a civil whistle-blower lawsuit alleging that Abbott inflated prices for Medicaid and Medicare reimbursable drugs. Abbott has settled a few of the
cases and recorded reserves for its estimated losses in a few other cases, however, Abbott is unable to estimate the range or amount of possible loss for the majority of the cases, and no loss
reserves have been recorded for them. Many of the products involved in these cases are Hospira products. Hospira, Abbott's former hospital products business, was spun off to Abbott's shareholders in
2004. Abbott retained liability for
losses that result from these cases and investigations to the extent any such losses both relate to the sale of Hospira's products prior to the spin-off of Hospira and relate to
allegations that were made in such pending and future cases and investigations that were the same as allegations existing at the date of the spin-off.   

  65  

Note 8   Litigation and Environmental Matters (Continued)    

          There
are several civil actions pending brought by state attorneys general and private entities alleging antitrust and unfair competition claims in connection with the sales of     TriCor   . Abbott licenses
   TriCor    from a third party and the licensor has also been named as a defendant.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, settlements were reached in all of these cases except the state attorneys general and indirect purchasers, however, Abbott is unable to estimate a range of loss, if any,
and no loss reserves have been recorded for the remaining    TriCor    cases. There are several civil actions pending brought by private payers and others
alleging antitrust claims in connection with the pricing of    Norvir   .   

          Within
the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures, except
as noted above, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $255 million to $495 million. The recorded reserve balance at December 31, 2008 for these
proceedings and exposures was approximately $325 million. These reserve and range amounts include $135 million of settled amounts that were paid in 2009. These reserves represent
management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5 "Accounting for Contingencies."   

          While
it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except for the cases and investigations discussed in the third paragraph and the patent case discussed in the
second paragraph of this footnote, the resolution of which could be material to cash flows or results of operations for a quarter.   

Note 9   Incentive Stock Program     

The 1996 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of stock options, replacement stock options, stock appreciation rights, limited stock appreciation rights, restricted stock
awards, restricted stock units, performance units and foreign qualified benefits. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the majority of benefits that
have been granted and are currently outstanding under this program. In 2008, Abbott granted 20,544,577 stock options, 4,425,398 replacement stock options, 829,491 restricted stock awards and 567,624
restricted stock units under the program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an
option is 10 years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six months. Options granted before January 1, 2005 included a replacement feature.
Except for options outstanding that have a replacement feature, options granted after December 31, 2004 do not include a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott
upon exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option may be granted equal to the amount of shares tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that
expires on the date of the underlying option grant. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock
awards and units are deemed satisfied. Restricted stock awards granted generally vest between 3 and 5 years and for restricted stock awards that vest over 5 years, no more than
one-third of the award vests in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock units vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives
one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock awards and units is recognized as expense over the service period. Restricted stock
awards and settlement of vested restricted stock units are issued out of treasury shares. Abbott issues new shares for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not have a policy of purchasing its
shares relating to its share-based programs. At January 1, 2009, approximately 56 million shares were reserved for future grants under the 1996 Program. Subsequent to
year-end, the Board of Directors granted approximately 8 million stock options and restricted stock awards and units from this reserve.   

  66  

Note 9   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

          The
number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008 was
3,740,341 and $49.04 and 3,574,445 and $52.21, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested and
lapsed during 2008 were 1,444,465 and $55.53, 1,389,085 and $47.09 and 221,276 and $51.15, respectively. The fair market value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was
$76 million, $114 million and $32 million, respectively.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2008 was $632 million and $559 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $314 million, $613 million and $205 million, respectively. The total unrecognized
compensation cost related to all share-based compensation plans at December 31, 2008 amounted to approximately $220 million which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

          Total
non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2008, 2007 and 2006 for share-based plans totaled approximately $350 million, $430 million and
$330 million, respectively, and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $117 million, $142 million and $78 million, respectively. Compensation cost capitalized as part
of inventory is not significant.   

          The
fair value of an option granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $11.42, $12.88 and $11.72, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
option's expected life. The average life of an option is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on
Abbott's stock and historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

  67  

Note 10   Debt and Lines of Credit     

The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31:    (dollars in millions)   

Principal
payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2008, are $1.0 billion in 2009, $160 million in 2010, $2.0 billion in
2011, $1.0 billion in 2012, $265 million in 2013 and $5.1 billion thereafter.   

          At
December 31, 2008, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available
financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $5.3 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a $2.3 billion facility expires in December 2009 and a
$3.0 billion facility expires in 2012. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbott's access to
short-term financing has not been affected by the recent credit market conditions. Abbott's weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.5% at
December 31, 2008, 3.7% at December 31, 2007 and 5.0% at December 31, 2006.   

    Note 11   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. for cash of approximately $3.8 billion, net of cash held by Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc., to expand Abbott's
presence in the lipid management market and to provide several on-market and late-stage pipeline products. Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. was a specialty pharmaceutical
company that developed and marketed proprietary medications for the treatment of chronic cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases. This business was acquired on December 13, 2006 and
the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed primarily with short-term debt. The
allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $1.3 billion for acquired in-process research and development, intangible assets of $821 million, goodwill (primarily
non-deductible) of $1.6 billion and net liabilities, primarily deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition of $331 million. Acquired intangible assets are being amortized
over 4 to 15 years. Non-deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006.   

  68  

Note 11   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

In
order to expand Abbott's presence in the growing vascular market, Abbott acquired Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 for
approximately $4.1 billion, in cash, in connection with Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant. In addition, Abbott agreed to pay to Boston Scientific $250 million each upon
government approvals to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and in Japan. In 2008, the FDA approved the marketing of     Xience V    and Abbott
paid Boston Scientific $250 million, resulting in the recording of additional goodwill. Government approval in Japan is
anticipated in late 2009 or early 2010 which will also result in the recording of additional goodwill. The allocation of the purchase price resulted in a charge of $665 million for acquired
in-process research and development, intangible assets of $1.2 billion, goodwill (primarily deductible) of $1.7 billion and tangible net assets of $580 million.
Acquired intangible assets are being amortized over 4 to 15 years. Deductible acquired in-process research and development was charged to income in 2006. The net tangible
assets acquired consist primarily of property and equipment of approximately $530 million, trade accounts receivable of approximately $250 million and inventories of approximately
$120 million, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, litigation reserves and other liabilities.   

          Had
the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.   

In
order to facilitate Boston Scientific's acquisition of Guidant, Abbott also acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock directly from Boston Scientific and
loaned $900 million to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific. The common stock was valued at $1.3 billion and the note receivable was valued at $829 million at the
acquisition date. In connection with the acquisition of the shares, Boston Scientific was entitled to certain after-tax gains upon Abbott's sale of the shares. In addition, Boston
Scientific agreed to reimburse Abbott for certain borrowing costs on debt incurred to acquire the Boston Scientific shares. Abbott recorded a net derivative financial instruments liability of
$59 million for the gain-sharing derivative financial instrument liability and the interest derivative financial instrument asset. The effect of recording the shares, the loan to
Boston Scientific and the derivative financial instruments at fair value on the date of acquisition resulted in the recording of additional goodwill of approximately $204 million. Changes in
the fair value of the derivative financial instruments, net were recorded in Other (income) expense, net.   

    Note 12   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

In 2008, Abbott paid $250 million to Boston Scientific as a result of the FDA's approval to market the    Xience V   
drug-eluting stent in the U.S., resulting in an increase in goodwill in the Vascular Products segment. In addition, the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceuticals Products Inc. joint
venture resulted in the recording of $350 million of goodwill related to the Pharmaceutical Products segment. Abbott recorded goodwill of $53 million and $3.7 billion in 2007 and
2006, respectively, related to acquisitions. Goodwill adjustments recorded in 2007 allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment amounted to $194 million and goodwill allocated to the
Vascular Products segment amounted to $(141) million. Acquired goodwill allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment amounted to $1.6 billion in 2006 and goodwill allocated to the
Vascular Products segment amounted to $1.7 billion in 2006. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments (decreased) increased goodwill in 2008, 2007
and 2006 by $(677) million,    $   627 million and $509 million, respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at
December 31, 2008 was $6.0 billion for the Pharmaceutical Products segment, $206 million for the Nutritional Products segment, $268 million for the Diagnostic Products
segment, and $2.2 billion for the Vascular Products segment. Goodwill was reduced by approximately $64 million in connection with the sale of Abbott's spine business in 2008. There were
no other reductions of goodwill relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.   

  69  

Note 12   Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)    

The
gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology was $9.4 billion, $9.0 billion and $9.0 billion as of December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $4.2 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets is approximately $780 million in 2009, $770 million in 2010, $760 million in 2011, $750 million in 2012 and
$720 million in 2013. Intangible assets are amortized over 4 to 25 years (average 11 years).   

    Note 13   Restructuring Plans     

In 2008, Abbott management approved a plan to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. This plan
will result in pretax charges of approximately $370 million over the next several years. These charges include employee-related costs of approximately $110 million, accelerated
depreciation of approximately $75 million, and other related exit costs of approximately $185 million, mainly related to product transfers. In 2008, Abbott recorded a charge to Cost of
products sold of approximately $129 million under the plan. Additional charges of approximately $16 million were recorded in 2008 relating to this restructuring, primarily for
accelerated depreciation. The remainder of the charges will occur through 2011 as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of
countries and product transition timelines. The following summarizes the activity for this restructuring:    (dollars in millions)   

In
2008, 2007 and 2006, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $36 million, $107 million and $210 million,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $94 million and $181 million in 2007 and
2006, respectively, is classified as cost of products sold, $3 million and $29 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, as research and development and $36 million and
$10 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, as selling, general and administrative. Fair value for the determination of the amount of asset impairments was determined primarily based on a
discounted cash flow method. An additional $81 million, $90 million and $70 million were subsequently recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to these
restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. In addition, Abbott implemented facilities restructuring plans in 2007 related to the acquired operations of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
which resulted in an increase to goodwill of approximately $52 million. Abbott expects to incur up to an additional $21 million in future periods for these restructuring plans, primarily
for   

  70  

Note 13   Restructuring Plans (Continued)    

accelerated
depreciation. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

Note 14   Subsequent Event   Business Combination     

In January 2009, Abbott announced an agreement to acquire Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO), a marketer of ophthalmic surgical technology and devices, as well as eye care
solutions, for approximately $2.8 billion, in cash and debt, to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts. The transaction
is expected to close in the first quarter of 2009. AMO's sales are more than $1 billion per year.   

  71  

Note 15   Quarterly Results (Unaudited)     

     (dollars in millions except per share data)      

(a)    The
sum of the quarters' basic earnings per share for 2007 and 2006 does not add to the full year earnings per share amount due to rounding.
      (b)    The
sum of the quarters' diluted earnings per share for 2006 does not add to the full year earnings per share amount due to rounding.
      (c)    Second
quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $493 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development.
      (d)    Fourth
quarter 2006 includes a pretax charge of $1,307 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development.    
  72  

Management Report on Internal Control   Over Financial Reporting            

          The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Abbott's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
financial statements.   

          All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   

          Abbott's
management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, it used the criteria
set forth in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2008, the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.   

          Abbott's
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
This report appears on page 75.   

Miles D.
White 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  Thomas C.
Freyman 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

  Greg W.
Linder 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER   

  February 19,
2009   

  73  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

          As
discussed in Notes 1, 2, and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for fair value measurements to adopt Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157,    Fair Value Measurements,    and adopted the fair value option under SFAS No. 159,     The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities,    for certain investments in 2007, and the Company changed its method of accounting
for pension and other post employment benefits to adopt SFAS No. 158,    Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans    in 2006.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control-Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 19, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2009   

  74  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

          We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our report dated February 19, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2009   

  75  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income   (dollars in thousands)            

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  76  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  77  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheets   (in thousands, except share amount)            

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  78  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity   Four Months Ended April 30, 2008 and   Years Ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006   (dollars in thousands, except share amounts)            

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  79  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries            

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   Four Months Ended April 30, 2008   Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006   (dollars in thousands)            

    Note 1. Dissolution of the TAP Joint Venture     

Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., a Japanese corporation (Takeda), ended their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries (TAP)
joint venture as of the close of business on April 30, 2008, evenly splitting the value of the assets and liabilities of the joint venture. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private
letter ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S. income tax purposes. Under the terms of the agreement, Abbott receives rights to the     Lupron    business, including the commercial
organization supporting that franchise, and will receive payments based on TAP's other current and certain
future products. Takeda receives the rights to the product    Prevacid   , all the remaining TAP commercial and support organizations, and the rights to TAP's
products in development.   

          Under
the terms of the agreement, TAP will contribute to Lake Products Inc. (Lake Products) assets related primarily to    Lupron    and
specified other pharmaceutical products (not including    Prevacid   ), certain other assets and TAP personnel primarily associated with     Lupron   , and Lake
Products will assume certain related liabilities. At closing, Abbott will exchange its 50 percent ownership interest in TAP for
100 percent ownership of Lake Products, which will then become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Abbott.   

Effective
May 1, 2008, TAP became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda America Holdings, Inc. Subsequently, Takeda merged TAP into two other Takeda entities.   

          The
financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this dissolution.   

    Note 2. Description of the Business     

TAP is a Delaware corporation owned equally by Abbott, an Illinois corporation, and Takeda America Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda. TAP is headquartered in
Lake Forest, Illinois and has approximately 2,900 employees. Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda, TAP develops, markets and sells human pharmaceutical products in the United States, Puerto
Rico, and Canada. TAP operates as one business segment with sales primarily in the United States. As discussed in Note 1 and Note 11, Abbott and Takeda dissolved the TAP joint venture as
of the close of business April 30, 2008.   

          TAP's
primary products are    Prevacid    and    Lupron   . The principal indications for     Prevacid    (lansoprazole), a proton
pump inhibitor, are for short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers and erosive
esophagitis.    Lupron    (leuprolide acetate), a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) analog, and    Lupron
Depot   , a sustained release form of    Lupron   , are used principally for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer,
endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids.   

          The
patents related to lansoprazole and    Lupron Depot    are material to the operation of TAP's business. The original United States compound
patent covering lansoprazole is licensed by TAP from Takeda. The original United States patents covering the    Lupron Depot    formulations are licensed by
TAP from Takeda.   

          TAP's
products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned
distribution centers. Primary marketing efforts are directed toward securing the prescription of TAP's brand of products by   

  80  

Note 2. Description of the Business (Continued)    

physicians.
Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important customers.   

TAP's
products are supplied by its owners, principally Takeda. A disruption in the supply of these products could adversely impact the operating results of TAP. Sales of TAP's primary
products are as follows:   

In
2007, TAP received a total of $147,925 to resolve litigation relating to alleged infringement of a    Lupron Depot    patent. In 2006, TAP
recognized revenue for milestone payments related to the 2005 license of the    Prevacid    trademark, certain patents and technical information to a third
party for the over-the-counter sale of    Prevacid    in the United States.   

          Accounts
receivable potentially subject TAP to concentrations of credit risk. TAP sells primarily to wholesale distributors and a majority of TAP's accounts receivable are derived from
sales to wholesale distributors. Three U.S. wholesale distributors accounted for more than 10% of TAP's gross sales as follows:   

TAP
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; nor special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted
for at fair value, except for the equity swap agreements that hedge market price exposure for employee stock options as described in Note 7.   

    Note 3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of TAP and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

USE
OF ESTIMATES   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates include amounts for income taxes, sales rebates, other post-employment
benefits, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, inventory reserves and accounts receivable allowances.   

          CASH
AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   Cash equivalents include time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds and other short-term
investments in governmental agency debt securities with original maturities of three months or less, or which are contractually convertible to cash in three months or less. Certain money market funds
have been classified as investments as of April 30, 2008 due to liquidity issues, as described further in Note 5.   

          INVESTMENT
SECURITIES   Investments in debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any
unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income. TAP monitors equity investments for other than temporary declines in fair value and charges
impairment losses to income when an other than temporary   

  81  

Note 3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

decline
in estimated value occurs. Income relating to debt securities is reported as interest income. Certain debt securities have been classified as long-term investments as of
April 30, 2008 due to liquidity issues.   

INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and packaging costs.
Inventories consist of the following:   

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives of property and equipment are as follows:   

Long-lived
assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable based on projected
undiscounted cash flows associated with the affected assets. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. Fair value is determined based on
market quotes, if available, or is based on valuation techniques.   

          REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers (when product is delivered to a common carrier).
Revenue from license of product rights is recorded over the periods earned. Provisions for estimated rebates and sales incentives to customers, doubtful accounts, cash discounts, product returns and
customer chargebacks are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Rebates and sales incentives are recorded as accrued rebates in the balance sheets. Reserves for doubtful accounts,
cash discounts, product returns and customer chargebacks are recorded as reductions to accounts receivable. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of
the reduction in gross sales.   

          RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results
are achieved.   

          ADVERTISING
AND PROMOTION EXPENSE   All advertising and promotion costs are expensed as Selling, general and administrative expenses when incurred. Total advertising
and promotion expense incurred was $38,735, $126,482 and $186,052 for the four months ended April 2008, and years ended 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          INCOME
TAXES   Deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences by applying statutory tax rates applicable to future years to
differences between the financial statement carrying amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.   

          RECENT
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   As of January 1, 2008, TAP adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 157,     Fair Value Measurements    and FASB Statement   

  82  

Note 3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

No. 159,
   The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   including an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 115   . These standards provide guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The effect of the adoption of these standards is summarized in
Note 5.   

    Note 4. Property and Equipment and Lease Obligations     

Property and equipment consists of the following:   

TAP
leases certain administrative and regional sales offices, equipment, and automobiles under non-cancelable leases which expire at various dates through 2013. Operating
lease expense totaled $1,810 for the four months ended April 30, 2008, and $4,939 and $4,688 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future minimum lease payments
under non-cancelable operating and capital leases as of April 30, 2008 consist of the following:   

Note 5. Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

TAP enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge purchases of inventories at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The forward contracts require TAP to purchase Yen in
exchange for U.S. dollars at pre-determined exchange rates and are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of cash flows due to changes in exchange rates. TAP does not trade
financial instruments with the objective of earning financial gains on the exchange rate fluctuations alone, nor does it trade in currencies or commodities for which there are no underlying exposures.   

The
effective portion of the changes in value of the forward contracts is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income, and is subsequently recognized in earnings in the same
period the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings. Any cash flow hedge ineffectiveness is reported in earnings in the current period.   

          TAP
did not have any outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts at April 30, 2008. TAP had outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts with a notional value of $16,349 and
fair value of $131 at   

  83  

Note 5. Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

December 31,
2007. The fair value adjustments of these contracts are recorded as prepaid expenses as of December 31, 2007. During 2008, 2007 and 2006 cash flow hedge ineffectiveness was
not material.   

          The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:   

The
following table summarizes the activity in 2008 relating to fair value measurements using Significant Unobservable Inputs:   

The
auctions for the auction rate certificates have failed since February 2008, resulting in market illiquidity and interest adjusted to the maximum contractual rates. Accordingly, the
certificates have been reclassified to long-term assets. While the certificates are paying interest at the maximum contractual rate, the market value no longer approximates par value.
Consequently, the fair value of these certificates has been estimated using the broker valuation model and an unrealized loss has been recorded in other comprehensive income.   

          Prior
to 2008, the Strategic Cash Portfolio was a fixed asset valuation (amortized cost) fund that provided daily liquidity. Due to unprecedented conditions in the short term credit
markets, the fund closed to new subscription or redemption requests and changed to a fluctuating asset valuation (market value). The underlying securities are valued on a daily basis by an independent
third party, and the total value is divided by the total number of shares outstanding to determine the daily Net Asset Value (NAV). The fair value of the fund has been estimated using the month ending
NAV and a loss has been recorded in earnings for other than temporary declines in estimated value.   

  84  

Note 6. Employee Benefit Plans     

TAP employees participate in various Abbott employee benefit plans, including the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan, the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, and the
Abbott Laboratories Incentive Stock Program (see Note 7 for further details). TAP is billed for its share of the costs of these plans. TAP's share of the employer contribution to the Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan is generally allocated based on TAP's proportionate share of the total compensation expense of all participants in the plan. TAP made contributions to the plan of
$16,000 in 2007 and 2006. TAP's contribution to the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan is based on participating employee contributions. TAP's contributions for the four months ended
April 30, 2008 and years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $4,958, $14,093 and $12,989, respectively.   

TAP
provides health and welfare benefits to its employees through the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Healthcare Plan. Contributions to the Plan are made in accordance with TAP's
funding policy. TAP provides certain medical and life insurance benefits to qualifying retirees through the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Retiree Medical Plan. The following provides a
reconciliation of the post-employment benefit obligations and funded status of the Plan:   

The
discount rates used to determine benefit obligations for medical and dental plans were 6.84 percent, 6.65 percent and 5.90 percent in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The discount rates used to determine net cost for medical and dental plans were 6.65 percent, 5.90 percent and 5.75 percent in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

  85  

Note 6. Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)    

          The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans were as follows:   

A
one-percentage point increase (decrease) in the assumed health care trend rate would increase (decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as
of April 30, 2008 by approximately $6,809 and $(5,236), respectively, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment benefit cost for the four
months then ended by approximately $416 and $(315), respectively.   

          Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants from company assets for post-employment medical and dental benefits are as follows:   

Note 7. Incentive Stock Program     

Certain employees of TAP are granted options to purchase Abbott common stock under the 1996 Abbott Incentive Stock Program. Stock options and replacement stock options granted to TAP
employees are currently outstanding under this program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the Abbott common stock on the date of grant, and
the maximum term of an option is 10 years. Options granted vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which generally vest in six months and have a life equal to the
remaining life of the replaced option. In addition, certain employees of TAP are granted restricted stock units in Abbott
stock. Restricted stock units granted vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. Upon a change in control of
Abbott, all outstanding stock options and restricted stock units become fully exercisable.   

          All
option exercises and restricted stock vesting are transacted with Abbott. TAP is liable for the excess of the market value of the option shares granted to TAP employees while
employed at TAP over the option price at the time of exercise and the market value of the Abbott stock at the time of vesting of restricted stock units and reimburses Abbott annually for the cost of
options exercised and the restricted stock units vested during the year.   

          TAP's
liability for options and restricted stock units granted was $71,136 and $92,108 at April 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Changes in the fair value of
these options are recorded as Selling, general and administrative expense. The weighted average fair value of an option granted in 2008, 2007   

  86  

Note 7. Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

and
2006 was $11.65, $14.02 and $11.83, respectively. The fair value of an option at grant date was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
fair value of an option as of April 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and 2006 was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the measurement date for U.S. government treasury STRIPS with a remaining term equal to the option's expected
life. The expected life of an option granted in 2008, 2007, and 2006 is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Prior to 2006, the expected life of an option granted was
based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period prior to the measurement date equal to the option's expected life. Dividend yield is based on the
option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

          The
following summarizes stock option activity for 2008:   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at April 30, 2008 was $43,240 and $39,940, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was
$3,281 and $33,705 and $8,500 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based compensation plans at April 30, 2008 amounted to
approximately $9,624 which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

          As
of April 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, TAP has recorded a liability for exercised options of $266 and $25,990, respectively, as a payable to Abbott. TAP also has
recorded a liability for options issued before the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 2-08,    Accounting for Options Granted to Employees in
Unrestricted, Publicly Traded Shares of an Unrelated Entity,    for the difference between the market value and strike price of vested yet unexercised options of $11,926 and
$20,838 as of April 30, 2008   

  87  

Note 7. Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

and
December 31, 2007, respectively. Total expense (income) related to the Abbott Incentive Stock Program of $(21,825), $59,549 and $49,489 was recorded as Selling, general and administrative
expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The amount of income tax benefit realized from stock options exercised in 2008, 2007 and 2006, amounted to $1,327, $7,654 and $2,236, respectively.   

          The
number of restricted stock units outstanding and the weighted-average grant date fair value at April 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007 was 26,588 and $49.66 and 43,791 and
$49.17, respectively. There were no restricted stock units granted during the four months ended April 30, 2008. The number of restricted stock units and the weighted-average
grant-date fair value that vested during the four months ending April 30, 2008 were 17,203 and $48.42, respectively. There were no restricted stock units that lapsed during the four
months ending April 30, 2008. The fair value of restricted stock units that vested in the first four months ending April 30, 2008 was $956.   

          Due
to the significant impact of fluctuations in the market price of Abbott common stock on the amount of recorded compensation expense of options issued under the Abbott Incentive Stock
Program, TAP entered into an ISDA Master Agreement (Master Agreement), dated September 29, 2000, which allows TAP to enter into equity swap transactions to hedge this market price exposure.
Each equity swap transaction guarantees a return equal to the actual return on a specified number of shares of Abbott common stock and, as such, effectively acts as a hedge of the Abbott Incentive
Stock Program. From time to time, TAP enters into equity swap transactions under the Master Agreement. Each transaction has a term of one to three years and requires quarterly cash settlement
resulting in all gains and losses being realized and recorded in the statements of income. Each transaction requires
on-going quarterly interest payments based on the equity notional amount, or the fair value of Abbott common stock shares swapped under each transaction at the date of the swap at a rate
of LIBOR plus 114 basis points or 100 basis points for transactions prior to October 2003. This agreement ended on April 2, 2008. Each equity swap transaction is recorded at fair value. The
fair value of equity swaps was $(10,593) as of December 31, 2007, and is recorded as Accrued liabilities in the balance sheet for December 31, 2007. For 2008, 2007 and 2006, TAP recorded
as Selling, general and administrative expenses $6,855, $(39,674) and $(47,554), respectively, of (gain) loss related to the equity swap investments.   

    Note 8. Income Taxes     

Taxes on earnings reflect the estimated annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of
differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts.   

          TAP's
U.S. income tax liabilities for years 2001 and 2006 are subject to final determination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS has challenged the deductibility of an item in
TAP's 2001 tax return. Management believes its deduction is proper and expects the ultimate resolution will not have a material impact on TAP's financial position or results of operations. There are
numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant.   

  88  

Note 8. Income Taxes (Continued)    

          The
provision for income taxes includes the following components:   

Differences
between the effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As
of April 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, total deferred tax assets were $124,764 and $147,566, respectively, and total deferred tax liabilities were $7,082 and $9,686,
respectively. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:   

On
January 1, 2007, TAP adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48,    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No 109   . Under this Interpretation, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the
position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Adoption of this
Interpretation did not have   

  89  

Note 8. Income Taxes (Continued)    

a
material impact on TAP's financial position. The following summarizes the activity for the unrecognized tax benefits:   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is approximately $53,000. Due to the inherent uncertainties in tax audits, TAP is
unable to estimate the range of reasonably possible change in its unrecognized tax benefits, if any, within the next twelve months. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

    Note 9. Litigation and Related Matters     

There are several civil actions pending brought by individuals or entities that allege generally that TAP and numerous pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing
information relating to the average wholesale price of certain pharmaceutical products in connection with federal, state and
private reimbursement. Civil actions have also been brought against TAP and other members of the pharmaceutical industry, by state attorneys general seeking to recover alleged damages on behalf of
state Medicaid programs. The outcome of these investigations and litigation could include the imposition of fines and penalties. TAP is unable to estimate the amount of possible loss, and no loss
reserves have been recorded for these exposures.   

          Within
the next year, other legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by TAP. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such
pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion, except as noted in the paragraph above, that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse
effect on TAP's financial position, cash flows or results of operations.   

    Note 10. Related-Party Transactions     

Various agreements exist among TAP, Abbott and Takeda and subsidiaries. All amounts due from and payable to Abbott and Takeda and subsidiaries have been reflected in the balance sheets
in the captions Receivable from Abbott, Receivable from Takeda and subsidiaries, Payable to Abbott, and Payable to Takeda and subsidiaries.   

TAP
purchases all    Lupron    and    Prevacid    unpackaged finished goods inventories from Takeda
and subsidiaries. Purchases are contracted at fixed Yen-denominated prices. The amount paid to Takeda and subsidiaries for purchases of these inventories for the four months ending
April 30, 2008, and years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, totaled $209,205, $488,160 and $609,436, respectively. TAP has royalty agreements with Takeda and subsidiaries for sales of     Lupron   
and    Prevacid   . For the four months ending April 30, 2008, and years ended
December 31, 2007, and 2006, TAP recorded royalty expense of $48,042, $163,572 and $179,770, respectively. Beginning in 2007, TAP co-promotes certain Takeda and subsidiaries'
products. TAP recognized co-promotion revenue relating to this agreement of $21,748 for the four months ending April 30, 2008 and $79,422 for the year ended December 31,
2007.   

  90  

Note 10. Related-Party Transactions (Continued)    

          TAP
pays Abbott for services related to packaging and warehousing, research and development and administrative functions. Amounts incurred for these services totaled $17,488, $53,967 and
$60,425 for the four months ending April 30, 2008, and years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, Abbott purchased, for international markets, TAP's products for
$34,695, $93,437 and $84,515 for the four months ending April 30, 2008, and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

    Note 11. Subsequent Event     

S   ubsequent to April 30, 2008, the estimate of exposure relating to the item in dispute with the IRS from the 2001 tax return (see
Note 8) was increased by $22,000 as a result of negotiations with the IRS. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement between Takeda and Abbott, this amount will be split evenly between the
two shareholders upon final settlement with the IRS.   

  91  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.:   

  We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of April 30, 2008, and December 31, 2007, and
the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for the four months ended April 30, 2008, and the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.   

  We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control
over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

  In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
April 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the four months ended April 30, 2008, and the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

  As
described in Note 1, the TAP joint venture was dissolved as of the close of business April 30, 2008. As part of the dissolution, Abbott Laboratories receives the rights to the     Lupron    business
and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. receives the rights to the    Prevacid   
business. The TAP businesses will continue under the management of either Abbott or Takeda. Effective May 1, 2008, TAP became a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda America Holdings, Inc.
Subsequently, Takeda merged TAP into two other Takeda entities. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this dissolution.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
August 27, 2008   

  92  

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

None.    

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

    Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

            Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.       The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and the
Chief Financial Officer, Thomas C. Freyman, evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and
concluded that Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and
to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

            Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.       Management's report on Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting is
included on page 73 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is
included on page 75 hereof.   

           Changes in internal control over financial reporting.       During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, there were no changes in Abbott's
internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's
internal control over financial reporting.    

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  93  

PART III            

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors,"
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the
2009 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 13, 2009. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption,
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 19 through 22 hereof.   

          Abbott
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of
Abbott's code of business conduct which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com) and is available in print to any shareholder who sends a
request for a paper copy to: Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Dept. 362, AP6D2, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6048, attn. Investor Relations. Abbott intends to include on
its website (www.abbott.com) any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal
accounting officer and controller that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.    

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 13, 2009.    

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)     Equity Compensation Plan Information   .    The material to be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement
under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 13, 2009.
      (b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership   .    Incorporated herein by reference is the material
under the heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2009 Proxy Statement. The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 13, 2009.    

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

The material to be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors," "Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Corporate Governance Materials," and "Approval Process for Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 13, 2009.    

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          The material to be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on
Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2009 Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 13, 2009.   

  94  

PART IV            

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

   (a)   Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.     

(1)     Financial Statements:       See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on
page 43 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:       The required financial statement schedules are found on the
pages indicated below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories and TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.:    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules

Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  

98  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

99  

Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05 of Regulation S-X  

TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Financial Statement Schedules

Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  

100  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

101  

(3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:       The information
called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 102 through 107 of this Form 10-K.    

(b)   Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 102 through 107).     

   (c)   Financial Statement Schedules filed (pages 98 and 100).     

  95  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

By  
      
    /s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 20, 2009  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February 20,
2009 in the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ MILES D. WHITE  

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories (principal executive officer)  
     
   /s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D.  

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)  
      
    /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN  

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ GREG W. LINDER 

Greg W. Linder 
Vice President and Controller (principal accounting officer)  
      
    /s/ WILLIAM M. DALEY  

William M. Daley 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL  

W. James Farrell 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER 

H. Laurance Fuller 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

96  

/s/ WILLIAM A. OSBORN  

William A. Osborn 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
     
   /s/ DAVID A. L. OWEN  

David A. L. Owen 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ BOONE POWELL JR. 

Boone Powell Jr. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ W. ANN REYNOLDS, PH.D.  

W. Ann Reynolds, Ph.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ ROY S. ROBERTS  

Roy S. Roberts 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ SAMUEL C. SCOTT III 

Samuel C. Scott III 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG  

William D. Smithburg 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ GLENN F. TILTON  

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

97  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007 AND 2006   (in thousands of dollars)            

98  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, and for the years then
ended, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 19, 2009, which report relating to the
consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of new accounting standards in 2007 and 2006; such reports are included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2009   

  99  

TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        FOR THE FOUR MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2008, AND THE YEARS ENDED    
DECEMBER 31, 2007 AND 2006        (in thousands of dollars)            

(a)    Represents
provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net change in the allowances for sales deductions.    
  100  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.   

          We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of April 30, 2008, and December 31,
2007 and 2006, and for the four
months ended April 30, 2008, and the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and have issued our report thereon dated August 27, 2008; such consolidated financial statements and
report are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This
consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

/s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
August 27, 2008   

  101  

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2008            

          Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

2.1  
     
       *Contribution and Exchange Agreement by and among Abbott Laboratories, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Takeda America Holdings,
 Inc., TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc., Lake Products Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceuticals LLC, dated as of March 19, 2008, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2008.  

2.2  
     
       *Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 11, 2009, by and among Abbott Laboratories, Rainforest
Acquisition Inc. and Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 11, 2009.  

3.1  
     
       *Articles of Incorporation, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.  

3.2  
     
       *Corporate By-Laws, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K
dated October 10, 2008.  

4.1  
     
       Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2008.  

4.2  
     
       *Indenture dated as of February 9, 2001, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.) (including form of Security), filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated
February 12, 2001.  

4.3  
     
       *Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 27, 2006, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated February 28, 2006.  

4.4  
     
       *Form of 3.5% Note, filed as Exhibit 4.29 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

4.5  
     
       *Actions of Authorized Officers with Respect to Abbott's 3.5% Notes, filed as Exhibit 4.30 to the 2003 Abbott
Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

4.6  
     
       *Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to Abbott's 3.5% Notes, filed as Exhibit 4.31 to the 2003 Abbott
Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

4.7  
     
       *Form of 3.75% Note, filed as Exhibit 4.28 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

4.8  
     
       *Form of 4.35% Note, filed as Exhibit 4.29 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

102  

103  

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

10.6  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on or after
February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.7  
     
       1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2008.**  

10.8  
     
       Rules for the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2008.**  

10.9  
     
       The Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008.**  

10.10  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.11  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.12  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.13  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.14  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.15  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.16  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.17  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.18  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed
as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004.**  

104  

105  

106  

The
2009 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 13, 2009.   

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

Abbott
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400.   

  107  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   
 
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
 
  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS   
  FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS   
  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   
  INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL   
  INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS   
  INTERNET INFORMATION   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
 
  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   
 
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
 
  PART II   
 
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
 
  Financial Review   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
 
  Financial Instruments and Risk Management   
 
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Earnings (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment (dollars in thousands except per share data)   
 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
 
  Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income (dollars in thousands)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amount)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Four Months Ended April 30, 2008 and Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands, except share
amounts)   
 
  TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Four Months Ended April 30, 2008 Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands)   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
 
  PART III   
 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
 
  PART IV   
 
  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

SIGNATURES   
 
  ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008, 2007 AND 2006 (in thousands of dollars)   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  TAP PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE FOUR MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2008, AND THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007 AND 2006 (in thousands of
dollars)   
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FORM 10-K 2008   

<EX-4.1>
 2
 a2188623zex-4_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 4.1

Exhibit 4.1   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES   

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

ARTICLE I  

Introduction   

Section 1.1                  Purpose   . 
The Plan is designed to assist the Employers in attracting and retaining
key employees by providing those employees with the opportunity to defer the
receipt of a portion of their compensation and to have that deferred
compensation treated as if it were invested pending its distribution by the
Plan.  

Section 1.2                  ERISA   . 
The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of
ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is limited to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections
201(2), 301(a)3 and 401(a)(1) of ERISA.  

Section 1.3                  Employers   .  

(a)               After the Effective Date, any Subsidiary of the
Company that is not then an Employer may adopt the Plan with the Company s
consent as described in  Section 13.12 .  

(b)               Each Employer shall be liable to the Company for an
amount equal to the Plan benefits earned by its Eligible Employees.  Where an Eligible Employee has been employed
by more than one Employer, the Plan Administrator shall allocate the liability
to the Company associated with that Eligible Employee s Plan benefits among his
or her Employers.  The Plan Administrator
shall establish procedures for determining the time at which and manner in
which the Employers shall pay this liability to the Company.  

Section 1.4                  Grandfathered Amounts   . 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, any amounts under
this Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as
determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) ( Grandfathered Amounts )
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as
in effect on October 3, 2004. 
Amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement
or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly
provided for in the amendment.  The terms
and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in
Appendix A attached hereto.  

1  

Section 1.5                  Effective Date   . 
The Plan has been amended and restated, effective as of January 1,
2008 (the  Effective Date ).  

ARTICLE II  

Definitions   

When used in this Plan, unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings set forth below. 
Whenever appropriate, words used in the singular shall be deemed to
include the plural, and  vice versa ,
and the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.  

Section 2.1                  Account   . 
 Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping
purposes for each Participant pursuant to  Article VI .  

Section 2.2                  Base Compensation   . 
 Base Compensation  means the Participant s total compensation earned in
a Plan Year for personal service actually rendered to an Employer, including
sales bonuses, sales incentives and sales commissions (excluding Eligible
Bonuses, all other bonuses, commissions, relocation expenses, reimbursements,
expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash or noncash), welfare benefits
(whether or not those amounts are includible in gross income) and other
non-regular forms of compensation) before deductions for (i) Deferral
Elections made pursuant to  Section 4.1 
or (ii) contributions made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer 401(k) Plan
or to any cafeteria plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the  Code ) maintained by an Employer.  

Section 2.3                  Beneficiary   . 
 Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated by the
Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to  Article IX .  

Section 2.4                  Board of Review   . 
 Board of Review  means the Abbott Laboratories Employee Benefit Board
of Review appointed and acting under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement
Plan and having the powers and duties described in this Plan.  

Section 2.5                  Company   . 
 Company  means Abbott Laboratories, its successors, any organization
into which or with which Abbott Laboratories may merge or consolidate or to
which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.  

Section 2.6                  Deferral Election   . 
 Deferral Election  means an election under the Plan by a Participant to
defer the receipt of a portion of his or her Eligible Compensation made on a
Deferral Election Form.  

Section 2.7                  Deferral Election Form   . 
 Deferral Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by
the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.1 
on which the Participant makes his or her Deferral Election.  

Section 2.8                  Deferral Account   . 
 Deferral Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record
keeping purposes for each Participant s Deferral Election pursuant to  Section 6.1 .  

2  

Section 2.9                  Disability   . 
The date of  Disability  of a Participant means that, the date on which
the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, eligible to receive
income replacement benefits under the terms of the Abbott Laboratories Extended
Disability Plan ( EDP ) or, for a Participant whose Employer does not
participate in the EDP, such similar accident and health plan, providing income
replacement benefits, in which his or her Employer participates, for a period
of six months.  

Section 2.10                Distribution Election   . 
 Distribution Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(a) .  

Section 2.11                Distribution Election Form   . 
 Distribution Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant
by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.3 
on which the Participant specifies the time at which the amounts credited to
one of the Participant s Account(s) are to be distributed and their method
of payment.  

Section 2.12                Effective Date   . 
 Effective Date  is defined in  Section 1.5 .  

Section 2.13                Eligibility Date   . 
 Eligibility Date  is defined in  Section 3.1(b) .  

Section 2.13                Eligible Bonus   . 
 Eligible Bonus  means an annual cash incentive bonus for a Plan Year
that the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, has designated as being eligible
for deferral under the Plan.  As of the
Effective Date, cash bonuses paid under the Abbott Laboratories Cash Profit
Sharing Plan or any Employer s annual incentive bonus plan with a performance
period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of the
applicable Plan Year are eligible for deferral under the Plan.  

Section 2.14                Eligible Compensation   . 
 Eligible Compensation  means the Participant s Base Compensation and
Eligible Bonuses.  

Section 2.15                Eligible Employee   . 
 Eligible Employee  means any person employed by an Employer who is both  

(i)                a United States employee or an
expatriate who is based and paid in the United States, and  

(ii)               shown as having a grade level of 20
(or equivalent level of compensation if on a different pay grade system) or
higher on his or her Employer s Human Resource System  

and who is not (a) both an
officer of the Company and eligible to participate in the Abbott Laboratories
401(k) Supplemental Plan, except as contemplated by  Section 3.1 
hereof for the Plan Year in which the person is first named an officer, (b) an
individual who provides services to an Employer under a contract, arrangement
or understanding with either the individual directly or with an agency or
leasing organization that treats the individual as either an independent
contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization, even if such
individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue
Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have
been a common law employee of an   

3  

Employer rather than an
independent contractor or employee of such agency or leasing organization, or (c) any
Employee who is employed by an Employer located in Puerto Rico, other than any
person designated as a  U.S. Expatriate  on the records of an Employer.  

For all Plan purposes, an
individual shall be an  Eligible Employee  for any Plan Year only if during
that Plan Year an Employer treats that individual as its employee for purposes
of employment taxes and wage withholding for Federal income taxes, even if such
individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue
Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have
been a common law employee of an Employer in that Plan Year.  

Section 2.16                Employer   . 
 Employer  shall mean the Company, the participating Employers on the
Effective Date, and any Subsidiary of the Company that subsequently adopts the
Plan in the manner provided in  Section 13.12 .  

Section 2.17                Employer Contribution   . 
 Employer Contribution  means the contribution deemed to have been made
by an Employer pursuant to  Section 5.1 .  

Section 2.18                Employer Contribution Account   . 
 Employer Contribution Account(s)  means the account(s) established
for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Employer Contributions
pursuant to  Section 6.1 .  

Section 2.19                Employer 401(k) Plan   . 
 Employer 401(k) Plan  means any defined contribution retirement
plan that is maintained by an Employer, qualified under Code Section 401(a),
and includes a cash or deferred arrangement under Code Section 401(k).  The term shall specifically include, but not
be limited to, the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Plan and the Abbott
Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan.  

Section 2.20                ERISA   . 
 ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended.  

Section 2.21                Hardship Distribution   . 
 Hardship Distribution  is defined in  Section 8.5(a) .  

Section 2.22                In-Service Distribution   . 
 In-Service Distribution  is defined in  Section 4.3 .  

Section 2.23                Initial Election   . 
 Initial Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(a) .  

Section 2.24                Investment Election   . 
 Investment Election  is defined in  Section 4.2(a) .  

Section 2.25                Investment Election Form   . 
 Investment Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by
the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.2 
on which the Participant specifies the Investment Funds in which the
Participant s Account(s) are to be deemed to be invested.  

Section 2.26                Investment Fund(s)   . 
 Investment Fund(s)  means one or more of the funds selected by the Plan
Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.2 .  

4  

Section 2.27                Investment Fund Subaccounts   . 
 Investment Fund Subaccounts  is defined in  Section 6.1(b) .  

Section 2.28                Matching DCP Deferral   . 
 Matching DCP Deferral  for a Participant for a Plan Year is an amount
equal to the total dollar amount of the Participant s deferrals for the Plan
Year pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b), but in
no event shall a Participant s Matching DCP Deferral for a Plan Year exceed the
amount by which (a) the Participant s Base Compensation for the Plan Year
up to the limit on compensation as defined in Code Section 401(a)(17)
exceeds (b) the Participant s Base Compensation for the Plan Year less the
total dollar amount deferred pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b) for
the Plan Year.  

Section 2.29                Participant   . 
 Participant  means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate in
this Plan by filing a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and
Distribution Election as provided in  Article IV .  

Section 2.30                Plan   . 
 Plan  means the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan.  

Section 2.31                Plan Administrator   . 
 Plan Administrator  means the Board of Review.  

Section 2.32                Plan Year   . 
 Plan Year  means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and
ending the following December 31.  

Section 2.33                Rate of Return   . 
 Rate of Return  means, for each Investment Fund, an amount equal to the
net gain or net loss (expressed as a percentage) on the assets of that
Investment Fund.  

Section 2.34                Retirement   . 
 Retirement  means a Termination of Employment after having satisfied
the age and service requirements of Subsection (a) or (b) below, as
applicable:  

(a)               With respect to Participants covered by the Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan:  

(i)                for the Participant hired before
2004, the date on which the Participant attains age 50 and completes 10 years
of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Abbott Laboratories
Annuity Retirement Plan); or  

(ii)               for the Participant hired after
2003, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 and completes 10 years
of vesting service.  

(b)               With respect to Participants covered by the Abbott
Laboratories Pension Plan for Former BASF Employees, the date on which the
Participant attains age 55 and completes 5 years of vesting service (as such
term is described in the Abbott Laboratories Pension Plan for Former BASF
Employees).  

Section 2.35                Subsequent Election   . 
 Subsequent Election  is defined in  Section 4.2(a) .  

5  

Section 2.36                Subsidiary   . 
 Subsidiary  shall mean any corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, joint venture, or business trust organized in the United States 50
percent or more of the voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly,
by the Company.  

Section 2.37                Termination of Employment   . 
 Termination of Employment  means the cessation of a Participant s
services as an employee, whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other
than death; provided, that the Participant shall not be considered to have
terminated employment for purposes of the Plan until he or she would be
considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from the Employer
within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  

Section 2.37                Unforeseeable Emergency   . 
 Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the
Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the
Participant s spouse or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant s
property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage
to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a
natural disaster), or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable
circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the
Participant as determined by the Plan Administrator.  

ARTICLE III  

Participation   

Section 3.1                  Participation   .  

(a)               Except as provided in  Sections 3.1(b) and (c) , an Eligible Employee may become
a Participant by making a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and
Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV 
on or before the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  

(b)               A newly hired individual who is an Eligible Employee
shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month
next following the month after the individual s date of hire (the  Eligibility
Date  provided, that in no event shall such individual begin to participate
in the plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  Notwithstanding the election requirements of Section 3.1(a),
a newly Eligible Employee who was not eligible to participate in any other plan
that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c) may
make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election
pursuant to  Article IV  within the thirty
(30) day period immediately following the Eligibility Date.  Any such election shall become effective for
Eligible Compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period
commencing after receipt of the election by the Plan Administrator and shall be
irrevocable for the remainder of the Plan Year.  

(c)               An individual who becomes an Eligible Employee as a
result of a job promotion or transfer may only make a Deferral Election,
Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  with respect to Eligible Compensation to be
earned in the Plan Year next following the year of such promotion or
transfer.  Any such election shall be
made in accordance with  Article IV 
and shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned in the Plan Year
following the year in which the election is made.  

6  

Section 3.2                  Termination of Participation   . 
A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a Termination
of Employment will remain a Participant but (i) may no longer make
Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such
termination and (ii) all deferrals under the Plan shall cease as of the
date of the Participant s Termination of Employment.  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible
Employee due to a job promotion (or demotion) may no longer make Deferral
Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such promotion or
demotion but the Participant s Deferral Elections for the Plan Year in which
such promotion or demotion occurs shall remain irrevocable.  A Participant shall remain a Participant
until (i) his or her death or (ii) his or her Accounts have been
distributed.  

ARTICLE IV  

Election Forms   

Section 4.1                  Deferral Elections   .  

(a)               Participants shall make their Deferral Elections
annually on a form provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Deferral Election
Form ). Each Deferral Election shall apply to only a single Plan Year.  

(b)               On his or her Deferral Election Form, the Participant
shall specify the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Base
Compensation and the amount (also expressed as a percentage) of his or her
Eligible Bonuses that the Participant elects to defer for that Plan Year
together with such other information as the Plan Administrator may, in its sole
and absolute discretion, require.  

(c)               For any Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer:  

(i)                between five percent (5%) and
seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Base Compensation (in whole percentage
increments), and  

(ii)               between five percent (5%) and one
hundred percent (100%) of his or her Eligible Bonus (in whole percentage
increments);  

provided, however, that in no
event may a Participant elect to defer his or her Eligible Compensation to the
extent that his or her remaining compensation would be insufficient to satisfy
all applicable withholding taxes and contributions required under Employer
sponsored benefit plans in which the Participant participates.  

(d)               A Participant may not revoke his or her Deferral
Election at any time after the deadline for making such Deferral Election set
by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  

Section 4.2                  Investment Elections   . 
The Plan Administrator shall, from time to time, make available investment
options (the  Investment Funds ) that serve as benchmark funds for the amounts
a Participant defers under the Plan.  A
Participant s Plan deferrals shall not actually be invested in the Investment
Funds and the Participant shall not be considered a shareholder of any of the
Investment Funds he or she selects by virtue of participation in the Plan.  Instead, the Participant s Plan deferrals
shall be considered invested in, and his or her Plan Account shall   

7  

reflect such Investment Fund s Rate of
Return. A Participant s election of investments shall be subject to the
following rules:  

(a)               Participants shall make their investment elections on
an Investment Election Form provided by the Plan Administrator (an  Investment
Election ).  

(b)               The Investment Election Form completed by the
Participant shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a
single Plan Year and shall specify the Investment Funds in which the deferrals
for each such Plan Year are to be deemed to be invested, and the portion
(expressed in whole percentage increments) of the deferrals for such Plan Year
that are to be deemed to be invested in each such Investment Fund, and shall
continue in effect until revoked or changed as permitted by the Plan
Administrator.  

Section 4.3                  Distribution Elections   .  

(a)               Participants shall make their distribution elections
in accordance with the Distribution Election Form provided by the Plan
Administrator (a  Distribution Election ) as permitted or required by such
form.  Each Distribution Election (the  Initial
Election ) shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a
single Plan Year and must be made by the deadline set by the Plan Administrator
pursuant to  Section 4.4 , at which time
the Initial Election shall be irrevocable, subject to  Section 4.3(c) .  

(b)               On the Distribution Election Form:  

(i)                 Mandatory Retirement Election   . 
In all cases, the Participant shall select the method of payment from
among the methods of payment described in  Section 8.3(a)  to
apply in the event payment is made upon Retirement pursuant to this
Distribution Election in accordance with  Sections 8.3 or 8.4 
or upon Disability in accordance with  Section 8.7 .  

(ii)                Optional In-Service Distribution Election   . 
The Participant shall also have the option to elect that the Eligible
Compensation being deferred for that Plan Year shall be paid to the Participant
while he or she is still employed by an Employer (an  In-Service Distribution ).  If the Participant elects to receive an
In-Service Distribution of the Eligible Compensation being deferred, then the
Participant shall also select the year in which the payments are to be
made.  A Participant may not elect to receive
an In-Service Distribution in a Plan Year that is less than two (2) years
after the end of the Plan Year in which the Eligible Compensation is earned.  

(c)               Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in  Section 4.3 , a Participant may change the form of
distribution or his or her Distribution Election (a  Subsequent Election ) to
the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator and Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C),
including the requirements that such Subsequent Election:  

8  

(i)                shall not take effect until at least
12 months after the date on which the Subsequent Election is filed with the
Plan Administrator;  

(ii)               shall result in the first
distribution subject to such Subsequent Election being made at least five years
after the date such distribution would otherwise have been paid pursuant to the
previous election; and  

(iii)              shall be filed with the Plan
Administrator at least 12 months before the date the first scheduled
distribution is to be paid pursuant to the previous election.  

Section 4.4                  Deadline for Submitting Election
Forms   .  The Plan Administrator may set a deadline or
deadlines for the receipt of the election forms required under the Plan;
provided, however, that, except as provided in  Section 3.1(b) ,
such forms must be filed on or before the end of the year immediately preceding
the Plan Year for which it is to be effective.  

ARTICLE V  

Employer
Contributions   

Section 5.1                  Employer Contributions   . 
Each Participant who makes a Deferral Election will be credited with an
Employer Contribution equal to 5% of the Participant s Matching DCP
Deferral.  The Plan Administrator may,
however, in his or her discretion, otherwise set the amount of the Employer
Contribution, subject to and not in excess of applicable limits imposed by the
Internal Revenue Service.  

Section 5.2                  Allocation of Employer Contributions   . 
A Participant s Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be allocated
among the same Investment Funds and in the same proportion as the Participant
has elected for his or her deferrals for that Plan Year.  

Section 5.3                  Distribution of Employer
Contributions   .  An Employer Contribution for a Plan Year
shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the
Participant governing his or her deferrals for that same Plan Year.  

ARTICLE VI  

Maintenance
and Crediting of Accounts   

Section 6.1                  Maintenance of Accounts   .  

(a)               The Plan shall maintain a separate Account for each
Deferral Election (a  Deferral Account ) made by and each Employer Contribution
(an  Employer Contribution Account ) made for a Participant.  A Participant s Accounts shall reflect the
Participant s Investment Fund Elections and Distribution Elections made
pursuant to  Article IV , any
Employer Contributions made on behalf of the Participant pursuant to  Article V , adjustments to the Account
made pursuant to this  Article VI ,
and distributions made with respect to the Account pursuant to  Article VIII .  The Accounts shall be used solely as a device
for the   

9  

measurement and determination of the amounts
to be paid to the Participants pursuant to this Plan and shall not constitute
or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  

(b)               Each Account shall be divided into separate
subaccounts ( Investment Fund Subaccounts ), each of which corresponds to the
Investment Fund selected by the Participant pursuant to  Section 4.2(b) .  

Section 6.2                  Crediting of Accounts   .  

(a)               No later than five (5) business days following
the end of each pay period, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment
Fund Subaccounts to reflect amounts deferred from the Participant s Eligible
Compensation during that pay period and the Investment Fund Election made by
the Participant with respect to that Eligible Compensation.  

(b)               At the end of each Plan Year, the Plan shall credit
each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect any Employer
Contribution deemed to have been made on behalf of the Participant for that
Plan Year and the allocation of that contribution among the Investment Funds
pursuant to  Section 4.2 .  

(c)               The Plan Administrator shall adjust each Investment
Fund Subaccount to reflect any transfers under the Plan to or from that
Investment Fund Subaccount, as of the end of each business day to reflect any
distributions under the Plan made with respect to that Investment Fund
Subaccount, and the Rate of Return on the related Investment Fund.  

Section 6.3                  Statement of Accounts   . 
Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her
Account(s) in such form as the Plan Administrator deems desirable, setting
forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Account(s) as
of the end of the most recently completed quarter.  

ARTICLE VII  

Vesting and
Forfeitures   

Section 7.1                  Deferral Accounts   . 
A Participant s Deferral Accounts shall be one hundred percent (100%)
vested and non-forfeitable at all times.  

Section 7.2                  Employer Contribution Account   .  

(a)               A Participant s Employer Contribution Account shall
become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable when the matching
contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant
under the Employer 401(k) Plan in which the Participant participates
become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable.  

(b)               If a Participant s employment with the Employers
terminates (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before the matching
contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant
under the Employer 401(k) Plan in which the Participant participates
become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable, then the
Participant shall forfeit his or her related Employer Contribution Account.  

10  

ARTICLE VIII  

Distribution
of Benefits   

Section 8.1                  Distribution of Benefits in the
Event of a Termination of Employment   .  If a
Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service
Distribution, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment
(other than due to Retirement) prior to receiving that In-Service Distribution,
the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the
Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment.  If a Participant elects to receive his or her
Plan benefits upon Retirement, then in the event of that Participant s
Termination of Employment prior to the date the Participant attains eligibility
for Retirement, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a
lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of
Employment.  

Section 8.2                  In-Service Distributions   . 
Subject to the provisions of  Section 8.6 ,
the Company shall pay In-Service Distributions in a lump-sum to the Participant
on the first business day in February of the year designated by the
Participant on his or her Distribution Election Form.  

Section 8.3                  Distribution of Benefits in the
Event of Retirement   .  

(a)               If, pursuant to  Section 4.3 ,
a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits for a Plan Year
upon his or her Retirement, then the Company shall pay the Participant his or
her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next
following the date of the Participant s Retirement in any of the following
forms pursuant to the Participant s Initial Election or Subsequent Election, as
applicable:  

(i)                in substantially equal quarterly or
annual installments to the Participant over fifteen (15) years; or  

(ii)               in substantially equal quarterly or
annual installments to the Participant over ten (10) years; or  

(iii)              in substantially equal quarterly or
annual installments to the Participant over five (5) years; or  

(iv)              in a lump-sum; or  

(v)               if no such election is on file with
the Plan Administrator, in substantially equal quarterly installments to the
Participant over ten (10) years.  

Quarterly installments shall be paid on the
first business day of each calendar quarter and annual installments shall be
paid on the first business day of each calendar year.  

(b)               Notwithstanding the provisions of  Section 8.3(a) ,
in the event that, as of the date of the Participant s Retirement, the
Participant s benefits under the Plan do not exceed, in the aggregate, $15,500,
the Participant s benefits shall be paid to the Participant in a lump-sum.  

11  

Section 8.4                  Distribution of Benefits on the
Earlier to Occur of a Participant s Retirement or a Specified Date   .  

If a Participant has elected to
receive his or her Plan benefits on a specified date pursuant to  Section 4.3(b)(ii) , if the Participant s Retirement
occurs prior to such specified date,  

(a)               For amounts deferred with respect to Plan Years
beginning prior to January 1, 2008, the Company shall pay the Participant
his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum on the first business day in February next
following the Participant s Retirement; and  

(b)               For amounts deferred with respect to Plan Years
beginning on or after January 1, 2008, the Company shall pay the
Participant his or her Plan benefits in accordance with  Section 8.3(a) ,
subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  

Section 8.5                  Distributions Due to Unforeseeable
Emergency   .  

(a)               A Participant may receive the early payment of all or
part of the balance in his or her Account(s) in the event of an
Unforeseeable Emergency (a  Hardship Distribution ) subject to the following
restrictions:  

(i)                The Participant has requested the
Hardship Distribution from the Plan Administrator on a form provided by or in
the format requested by the Plan Administrator;  

(ii)               The Plan Administrator has
determined that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred;  

(iii)              The Plan Administrator determines
the amount of the Hardship Distribution, which amount will be limited to the
amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need (including any
amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, local or foreign income taxes or
penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the Hardship Distribution); and  

(iv)              The Hardship Distribution shall be distributed
in a lump-sum within 30 days following determination by the Plan Administrator
of the amount of the Hardship Distribution.  

(b)               The circumstances that would constitute a
Unforeseeable Emergency will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case,
but, in any case, a Hardship Distribution may not be made to the extent that
such hardship may be relieved through (i) reimbursement or compensation by
insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation of the Participant s assets, to
the extent that liquidation of the Participant s assets would not itself cause
severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this
Plan in compliance with Code Section 409A.  

Section 8.6                  Distribution of Benefits in the
Event of Death   .  In the event of a Participant s death prior
to the complete distribution of his or her Accounts, the Company shall  

12  

distribute his or her total Plan benefits to
his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum within 90 days after the date of the
Participant s death.  

Section 8.7                  Distribution of Benefits in the
Event of Disability   .  

In the event of a Participant s
Disability, the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits
commencing on the first business day in February next following the date
of the Participant s Disability in the form set forth below:  

(a)               For any Participant who has elected to receive his or
her Plan benefits upon Retirement, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution
Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms
permitted under  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  

(b)               For a Participant who has elected to receive his or
her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, if the Participant s
Disability occurs prior to the date specified in such Distribution Election:  

(i)                For amounts deferred with respect to
Plan Years beginning on or subsequent to January 1, 2008, pursuant to the
Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one
of the Retirement forms permitted under  Section 8.3(a) ,
subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  

(ii)               For amounts deferred with respect to
all Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, pursuant to the
Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in a
lump sum under  Section 4.3(b)(ii) .  

Section 8.8                  Postponing or Amending Distributions   . 
A Participant may postpone a scheduled distribution or amend the form of
distribution specified in  Section 8.2, 
 Section 8.3(a)  or  Section 8.4  only by making a Subsequent Election
pursuant to the terms of  Section 4.3(c) .  

ARTICLE IX  

Beneficiary
Designation   

Section 9.1                  Beneficiary Designation   . 
Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any
person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. A
Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant
by filing a designation with the Plan Administrator, on such form and in
accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish from
time to time.  

Section 9.2                 Failure to Designate a Beneficiary .  If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to
designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries
predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participant s
Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order: 

(i)                to the spouse of such person, if
any; or  

13  

(ii)               to the deceased person s estate.  

Section 9.3                  Facility of Payment   . 
When, in the Plan Administrator s opinion, a Participant or Beneficiary
is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable
to manage his or her financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may make any
benefit payments to the Participant or Beneficiary s legal representative, or
spouse, or the Plan Administrator may apply the payment for the benefit of the
Participant or Beneficiary in any way the Plan Administrator considers
advisable, in each case, without subjecting the Participant or Beneficiary to
accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A.  

ARTICLE X  

Administration
of Plan   

Section 10.1                Plan Administrator   . 
The Board of Review, or such person as the Board of Review shall
designate pursuant to  Section 10.3 ,    shall serve as the Plan Administrator of
the Plan. The administration of the Plan shall be under the supervision of the
Plan Administrator. It shall be a principal duty of the Plan Administrator to
see that the Plan is carried out, in accordance with its terms, for the
exclusive benefit of persons entitled to participate in the Plan without
discrimination    among them.
Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Plan Administrator decides,
in his or her discretion, that the applicant is entitled to them. The Plan
Administrator will have full power to administer the Plan in all of its
details, subject to applicable requirements of law. For this purpose, the Plan
Administrator s powers will include but will not be limited to, the following
authority, in addition to all other powers provided by this Plan:  

(i)                To make and enforce such rules and
regulations as it deems necessary or proper for the efficient administration of
the Plan, including the establishment of any claims procedures that may be
required by applicable provisions of law;  

(ii)               To exercise discretion in
interpreting the Plan, any interpretation to be reviewed under the arbitrary
and capricious standard;  

(iii)              To exercise discretion in deciding
all questions concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any person to
participate in the Plan; such decision to be reviewed under the arbitrary and
capricious standard;  

(iv)              To appoint such agents, counsel,
accountants, consultants and other persons as may be required to assist in
administering the Plan;  

(v)               To allocate and delegate its responsibilities
under the Plan and to designate other persons to carry out any of its
responsibilities under the Plan, any such allocations, delegation or
designation to be in writing;  

14  

(vi)              To determine the amount and type of
benefits to which any Participant or Beneficiary shall be entitled hereunder,
including the method and date for all valuations under the Plan;  

(vii)             To receive from the Employers and
from Participants such information as shall be necessary for the proper
administration of the Plan or any of its programs;  

(viii)            To maintain or cause to be
maintained all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan;  

(ix)               To receive, review and keep on file
(as it deems convenient and proper) reports of benefit payments made by the
Plan;  

(x)                To determine and allocate among the
Employers the liability to the Company associated with Plan benefits in
accordance with  Section 1.3 
and to determine the time at which and manner in which that liability shall be
paid to the Company;  

(xi)               To make, or cause to be made,
equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of
the Plan; and  

(xii)              To do all other acts which the Plan
Administrator deems necessary or proper to accomplish and implement its
responsibilities under the Plan.  

Section 10.2                Reliance on Tables, etc   . 
In administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator will be entitled to
the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively on all tables, valuations,
certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by, or in accordance
with the instructions of accountants, counsel, or other experts employed or
engaged by the Plan Administrator.  

Section 10.3                Delegation   . 
The Board of Review shall have the authority to appoint another
corporation or one or more other persons to serve as the Plan Administrator
hereunder, in which event such corporation or person (or persons) shall
exercise all of the powers, duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the
Plan Administrator hereunder.  

Section 10.4                Operations   . 
The day to day operation of the Plan will be handled by the person or
persons designated by the Plan Administrator.  

Section 10.5                Uniform Rules   . 
The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan on a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory basis and shall apply uniform rules to all similarly
situated Participants.  

Section 10.6                Plan Administrator s Decisions Final   . 
Any interpretation of the provisions of the Plan (including but not
limited to the provisions of any of its Programs) and any decision on any
matter within the discretion of the Plan Administrator made by the Plan
Administrator in good faith shall be binding on all persons. A misstatement or
other mistake of fact shall be corrected when it becomes known and the Plan Administrator
shall make such adjustment on   

15  

account thereof as it considers equitable and
practicable. Neither the Plan Administrator nor any Employer shall be liable in
any manner for any determination of fact made in good faith.  

ARTICLE XI  

Claims for
Benefits   

Section 11.1                Claims and Review Procedures   . 
The Plan Administrator shall adopt procedures for the filing and review
of claims in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA.  

ARTICLE XII  

Amendment and
Termination of Plan   

Section 12.1                Amendment   . 
The Company may amend this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time
provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance
in any Account as accrued at the time of such amendment. Any amendment which
would allow officers of the Company to participate in the Plan shall require
the approval of the Abbott Laboratories Board of Directors. Any amendment which
increases the total cost of the Plan to the Employers in excess of $250,000 in
each of the three full calendar years next following the date of the amendment
shall be approved by the Board of Review. 
The Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Company shall approve
all other amendments to the Plan and the extension of the Plan to any division
or Subsidiary of the Company.  

Section 12.2                Termination   . 
The Board of Review may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to
future Deferral Elections.  The Board of
Review may also terminate and liquidate the Plan in its entirety; provided that
such termination and liquidation are consistent with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  Upon any such termination, the Company shall
pay to the Participant the benefits the Participant is entitled to receive
under the Plan, determined as of the termination date, in compliance with Code Section 409A.  

ARTICLE XIII  

Miscellaneous   

Section 13.1                Unfunded Plan   . 
This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for
the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management
or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and
401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I
of ERISA.  All payments pursuant to the
Plan shall be made from the general funds of the Company and no special or
separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to
assure payment. No Participant or other person shall have under any
circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of the Company
as a result of participating in the Plan.  

Section 13.2                Nonassignability   . 
Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the
designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall
have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage
or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual
receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or   

16  

any part thereof, which are, and all rights
to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior
to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of
any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or
any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a
Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency.  

Section 13.3                Validity and Severability   . 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall
not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan,
which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or
unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render
unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  

Section 13.4                Governing Law   . 
The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan
shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, without
reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by
federal law.  

Section 13.5                Employment Status   . 
This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the
Participant or the Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an
employee of the Company or change the status of the Participant s employment or
the policies of the Company and its affiliates regarding termination of
employment.  

Section 13.6                Underlying Incentive Plans and
Programs   .  Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the
Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the
incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Eligible Bonuses or Eligible
Compensation are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.  

Section 13.7                Successors of the Company   . 
The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to
the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the
Company.  

Section 13.8                Waiver of Breach   . 
The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by
the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent
breach by the Participant.  

Section 13.9                Notice   . 
Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Company
under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by
first class mail to the principal office of the Company, directed to the
attention of the Plan Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of
the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on
the postmark.  

Section 13.10              Waiver of Notice   . Any notice required under the Plan
may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

Section 13.11              Evidence   . 
Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate,
affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on it
considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper
party or parties.  

17  

Section 13.12              Additional Employers   . Subject to the consent of the
Board of Review, any Subsidiary of the Company may adopt the Plan by filing a
written instrument to that effect with the Company.  

Section 13.13              Separation and Distribution
Agreement of 2004   .  The provisions of this  Section 13.13 
shall apply to an Eligible Employee who is a Participant in the Plan and who
transfers from employment with the Company or an Employer to Hospira, Inc.
or to a subsidiary of Hospira, Inc. (collectively, the  Hospira Companies )
as a result of the transactions contemplated by that certain Separation and
Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc.,
dated as of April 12, 2004
(the  Distribution Agreement ), and such transfer of employment is made in
accordance with and subject to the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement as
described in the Distribution Agreement (each such transferred Participant
referred to herein as a  Transferred Hospira Participant ).  

(a)               A Transferred Hospira Participant s transfer of
employment to the Hospira Companies will not be considered as a termination of
employment as a result of Termination of Employment, Retirement or Disability
for purposes of determining eligibility for distributions under  Article VII  of the Plan.  Such Transferred Hospira Participant s
termination of employment resulting from Termination of Employment, Retirement
or Disability shall occur only upon his or her subsequent termination of
employment from the Hospira Companies (and Termination of Employment,
Retirement and Disability with respect to such Transferred Hospira Participants
shall mean such events in relation to the Hospira Companies rather than in
relation to the Company and the Employers);  

(b)               Following his or her transfer to employment with the
Hospira Companies, a Transferred Hospira Participant will remain a participant
but will not be eligible to make Deferral Elections.  A Transferred Hospira Participant shall
remain a Participant until (i) his or her death or (ii) his or her
Accounts have been distributed in accordance with the Plan and in accordance
with the Transferred Hospira Participant s elections regarding the manner of
distribution of such Accounts.  

Section 13.14              Section 409A   . 
 To the extent
applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A .  The Plan will be administered and interpreted
in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect
until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the
extent permitted by Code Section 409A). 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent
required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A
and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be
payable pursuant to the Plan    during the
six-month period immediately following the Participant s Termination of
Employment or Retirement shall instead be paid on the first business day after
the date that is six months following the Participant s Termination of
Employment or Retirement (or upon the Participant s death, if earlier), plus,
to the extent subject to a six-month delay, a return equal to the Rate of
Return that would be achieved if such amounts were invested in accordance with
the Participant s Investment Elections under Section 4.2 from the
respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the
actual date of payment.  

18  

Appendix
A  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES   

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

ARTICLE 1   

Introduction   

Section 1.1                                        Purpose .  The Plan is designed to assist the Employers
in attracting and retaining key employees by providing those employees with the
opportunity to defer the receipt of a portion of their compensation and to have
that deferred compensation treated as if it were invested pending its
distribution by the Plan. 

Section 1.2                                        ERISA .  The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts
2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is
limited to a select group of management and highly compensated employees,
within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)3 and 401(a)(l) of ERISA. 

Section 1.3                                        Employers . 

(a)                                      In addition to the Company, the
participating Employers on the Effective Date are Abbott Laboratories
International Company, Abbott International Ltd., TAP Pharmaceutical Products
Inc., TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc., Abbott Laboratories Inc., Murex Diagnostics, Inc.,
TAP Finance Inc., Perclose Inc., Abbott BioResearch Center, Inc., and
Knoll Pharmaceutical Corporation.  

(b)                                     After the Effective Date, any other
Subsidiary of the Company may adopt the Plan with the Company s consent as
described in  Section 13.12 .  

(c)                                      Each Employer shall be liable to the
Company for an amount equal to the Plan benefits earned by its Eligible
Employees. Where an Eligible Employee has been employed by more than one
Employer, the Plan Administrator shall allocate the liability to the Company
associated with that Eligible Employee s Plan benefits among his or her
Employers. The Plan Administrator shall establish procedures for determining
the time at which and manner in which the Employers shall pay this liability to
the Company.  

Section 1.4                                        Effective Date .  The Plan s  Effective Date  is January 1,
2002. 

ARTICLE 2   

Definitions   

When used in this Plan, unless the context
clearly requires a different meaning, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings set forth below. Whenever appropriate, words used in the singular
shall be deemed to include the plural, and  vice versa , and
the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.  

Section 2.1                                        Account .   Account(s)  means the account(s) established
for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to  Article 6 . 

Section 2.2                                        Base Salary .   Base Salary  means the Participant s annual
base rate of pay from an Employer (excluding Eligible Bonuses, all other
bonuses, commissions, relocation expenses, and other non-regular forms of
compensation) before deductions for (i) Deferral Elections made pursuant
to  Section 4.1  or (ii) contributions
made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer 401(k) Plan or to any
cafeteria plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  Code ) maintained by an Employer. 

Section 2.3                                        Beneficiary .   Beneficiary  means the person, persons or
entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the
Plan pursuant to  Article 9 . 

Section 2.4                                        Board of Review .
 Board of Review  means the Abbott Laboratories Employee Benefit Board of
Review appointed and acting under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement
Plan and having the powers and duties described in this Plan. 

Section 2.5                                        Company .   Company  means Abbott Laboratories, its successors,
any organization into which or with which Abbott Laboratories may merge or
consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be
transferred. 

Section 2.6                                        Deferral
Election .   Deferral Election  means
an election under the Plan by a Participant to defer the receipt of a portion
of his or her Eligible Compensation made on a Deferral Election Form. 

Section 2.7                                        Deferral
Election Form .   Deferral Election
Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.1  on which the Participant makes his or her
Deferral Election. 

Section 2.8                                        Deferral Account .   Deferral Account(s)  means the account(s) established
for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Deferral Election pursuant
to  Section 6.1 . 

Section 2.9                                        Disability .   Disability  means eligibility for disability
benefits under the terms of the Abbott Laboratories Extended Disability Plan ( EDP )
or, for a Participant whose Employer does not participate in the EDP, such
similar plan, providing long term or extended disability benefits, in which his
or her Employer participates. 

Section 2.10                                  Distribution Election
Form .   Distribution Election Form 
means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.3  on which the Participant specifies  

2  

the time at
which the amounts credited to one of the Participant s Account(s) are to
be distributed and their method of payment.  

Section 2.11                                  Early Distribution .
 Early Distribution  is defined in  Section 8.5 . 

Section 2.12                                  Eligible Bonus .   Eligible Bonus  means an annual cash
incentive bonus for a Plan Year that the Plan Administrator, or its delegate,
has designated as being eligible for deferral under this Plan. As of the
Effective Date, cash bonuses paid under the following plans have been
designated as being eligible for deferral under the Plan: the Abbott
Laboratories Cash Profit Sharing Plan, the Abbott Laboratories Divisional
Incentive Plan, and the Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan. 

Section 2.13                                  Eligible Compensation .   Eligible Compensation  means the Participant s
Base Salary and Eligible Bonuses. 

Section 2.14                                  Eligible Employee .   Eligible Employee  means any person employed
by an Employer who is both 

(i)                                        a
United States employee or an expatriate who is based and paid in the United
States, and 

(ii)                                     shown
as having a grade level of 20 or higher on his or her Employer s Human Resource
System 

and who is not (i) an officer of the
Company, (ii) an individual who provides services to an Employer under a
contract, arrangement or understanding with either the individual directly or
with an agency or leasing organization that treats the individual as either an
independent contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization,
even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the
Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or
otherwise) to have been a common law employee of an Employer rather than an
independent contractor or employee of such agency or leasing organization, or (iii) any
Employee who is employed by an Employer located in Puerto Rico, other than any
person designated as a  U.S. Expatriate  on the records of an Employer.  

For all Plan purposes, an individual shall be
an  Eligible Employee  for any Plan Year only if during that Plan Year an
Employer treats that individual as its employee for purposes of employment
taxes and wage withholding for Federal income taxes, even if such individual is
subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any
other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have been a common
law employee of an Employer in that Plan Year.  

Section 2.15                                  Employer .   Employer  shall mean the Company, the
participating Employers on the Effective Date, and any Subsidiary of the
Company that subsequently adopts the Plan in the manner provided in  Section 13.12 . 

Section 2.16                                  Employer Contribution .   Employer Contribution  means the
contribution deemed to have been made by an Employer pursuant to  Section 5.1 . 

3  

Section 2.17                                  Employer Contribution
Account .   Employer Contribution
Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes
for each Participant s Employer Contributions pursuant to  Section 6.l . 

Section 2.18                                  Employer 401(k) Plan .   Employer 401(k) Plan  means any defined
contribution retirement plan that is maintained by an Employer, qualified under
Section 401(a) of the Code, and includes a cash or deferred
arrangement under Code Section 401(k). The term shall specifically
include, but not be limited to, the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Plan and
the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan. 

Section 2.19                                  ERISA .   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

Section 2.20                                  Hardship Distribution .   Hardship Distribution  is defined in  Section 8.4 . 

Section 2.21                                  In-Service
Distribution .   In-Service
Distribution  is defined in  Section 4.3 . 

Section 2.22                                  Investment Fund(s) .   Investment Fund(s)  means one or more of the
funds selected by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.2 . 

Section 2.23                                  Investment Election
Form .   Investment Election Form 
means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.2  on which the Participant specifies the
Investment Funds in which the Participant s Account(s) are to be deemed to
be invested. 

Section 2.24                                  Participant .   Participant  means any Eligible Employee who
elects to participate in this Plan by filing a Deferral Election, Investment
Fund Election, and Distribution Election as provided in  Article 4 . 

Section 2.25                                  Plan .   Plan  means the Abbott Laboratories Deferred
Compensation Plan. 

Section 2.26                                  Plan Administrator .
 Plan Administrator  means the Board of Review. 

Section 2.27                                  Plan Year .   Plan Year  means a twelve-month period
beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31. 

Section 2.28                                  Rate of Return .   Rate of Return  means, for each Investment
Fund, an amount equal to the net gain or net loss (expressed as a percentage)
on the assets of that Investment Fund. 

Section 2.29                                  Retirement .   Retirement  means the retirement of a
Participant from an Employer under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement
Plan or any other pension or defined benefit pension plan of the Company or an
Employer, including for this purpose the Abbott Laboratories Pension for Former
BASF Employees. 

Section 2.30                                  Subsidiary .   Subsidiary  shall mean any corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or business trust
organized in the United States 50 percent or more of the voting stock of which
is owed, directly or indirectly, by the Company. 

4  

Section 2.31                                  Termination of
Employment .   Termination of Employment 
means the cessation of a Participant s services as an employee of the Company,
whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other than Retirement,
Disability or death. 

Section 2.32                                  Unforeseeable
Emergency .   Unforeseeable Emergency  
means severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and
unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or a dependent of the
Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other
similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of
events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Plan
Administrator. 

ARTICLE 3   

Participation   

Section 3.1                                        Participation . 

(a)                                    Except as provided in  Sections 3.1(a)  and  (c) ,
an Eligible Employee may become a Participant by making a Deferral Election,
Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article 4  on or before the deadline set by the Plan
Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  

(b)                                   A newly Eligible Employee may become
a Participant by making a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and
Distribution Election pursuant to  Article 4 
within thirty (30) days of his or her date of hire by an Employer and deferrals
shall commence as soon as practical thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
an individual who becomes a newly Eligible Employee as a result of a job
promotion or transfer may not begin to participate in the Plan until the Plan
Year next following such promotion or transfer.  

(c)                                    If a Participant revokes his or her
Deferral Election for a Plan Year pursuant to  Section 4.l(d) ,
then that Participant may not make a Deferral Election for the following Plan
Year.  

Section 3.2                                        Termination of
Participation .  Participant who
ceases to be an Eligible Employee will remain a Participant but may no longer
make Deferral Elections. A Participant shall remain a Participant until (i) his
or her death or (ii) his or her Accounts have been distributed. 

ARTICLE 4   

Election Forms   

Section 4.1                                        Deferral
Elections . 

(a)                                      Participants shall make their
Deferral Elections mutually on a form provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Defend
Election Form ). Each Deferral Election shall apply to only a single Plan Year.  

5  

(b)                                     On his or her Deferral Election
Form, the Participant shall specify the amount (expressed as a percentage) of
his or her Base Salary and the amount (also expressed as a percentage) of his
or her Eligible Bonuses that the Participant elects to defer for that Plan Year
together with such other information as the Plan Administrator may, in its sole
and absolute discretion, require.  

(c)                                      For any Plan Year, a Participant may
elect to defer:  

(i)                                           between five percent (5%) and
seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Base Salary (in whole percentage
increments), and  

(ii)                                    between five percent (5%) and one
hundred percent (100%) of his or her Eligible Bonus (in whole percentage
increments);  

provided, however, that in no event may a
Participant elect to defer his or her Eligible Compensation to the extent that
his or her remaining compensation would be insufficient to satisfy all
applicable withholding taxes and contributions required under Employer
sponsored benefit plans in which the Participant participates.  

(d)                                     A Participant prospectively may
revoke his or her Deferral Election with respect to his or her Base Salary but
may not otherwise revoke or modify his or her Deferral Election. Any such
revocation shall be made on forms provided by the Plan. If a Participant
revokes his or her Deferral Election, then that Participant may not make a
Deferral Election during the immediately following Plan Year.  

Section 4.2                                        Investment
Elections .  The Plan Administrator
shall, from time to time, make available investment options (the  Investment
Funds ) that serve as benchmark funds for the amounts a Participant defers
under the Plan. A Participant s Plan deferrals shall not actually be invested
in the Investment Funds and the Participant shall not be considered a
shareholder of any of the Investment Funds he or she selects by virtue of
participation in the Plan. Instead, the Participant s Plan deferrals shall be
considered invested in, and his or her Plan Account shall reflect such
Investment Fund s Rate of Return.  A
Participant s election of investments shall be subject to the following rules: 

(a)                                      Participants shall make their
investment elections on an Investment Election Form provided by the Plan
Administrator (an  Investment Election ).  

(b)                                     On his or her Investment Election
Form, the Participant shall specify the Accounts to which the Investment
Election applies, the Investment Funds in which those Account(s) are to be
deemed to be invested, and the portion (expressed in whole percentage
increments) of each Account that is to be deemed to be invested in each such
Investment Fund.  

(c)                                      A Participant may change his or her
Investment Election no more often than once every thirty (30) days.  

Section 4.3                                        Distribution
Elections . 

6  

(a)                                      Participants shall make their
distribution elections on a Distribution Election Form provided by the
Plan Administrator (a  Distribution Election ). Each Distribution Election
shall apply to only the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan
Year.  

(b)                                     On the Distribution Election Form:  

(i)                                       the Participant shall state whether
the Eligible Compensation being deferred for that Plan Year are to be paid to
the Participant while he or she is still employed by an Employer (an  In-Service
Distribution ) or upon the Participant s Retirement or Disability.  

(ii)                                    If the Participant elects to receive
the Eligible Compensation being deferred upon his or her Retirement or
Disability, then the Participant shall also select the method of payment from
among the methods of payment described in  Section 8.3(a) .
An election to receive a distribution of the Eligible Compensation being
deferred upon Retirement or Disability will be irrevocable after the beginning
of the Plan Year to which the Deferral Election relates.  

(iii)                                 If the Participant elects to receive
an In-Service Distribution of the Eligible Compensation being deferred, then
the Participant shall also select the year in which the payments are to be
made. A Participant may not elect to receive an In-Service Distribution in a
Plan Year that is less than two (2) years after the end of the Plan Year
in which the Eligible Compensation is earned.  

Section 4.4                                        Deadline for
Submitting Election Forms .  The Plan
Administrator may set a deadline or deadlines for the receipt of the election forms
required under the Plan; provided, however, that such forms must be filed on or
before the November 30 immediately preceding the Plan Year for which it is
to be effective; and provided further that the deadline for the first Plan Year
may be on or before December 31. 

ARTICLE 5   

Employer Contributions   

Section 5.1                                        Employer
Contributions .  Each Participant who
makes a Deferral Election will be credited with an Employer Contribution using
the same formula for employer matching contributions used under the Employer
401(k) Plan in which that Participant participates. To receive an Employer
Contribution, the Participant must be contributing the maximum allowable amount
of pre-tax contributions to the Employer 401(k) Plan in which he or she
participates and it will be assumed that he or she is receiving an employer
matching contribution on his or her contribution. This assumed matching
contribution from the Employer 401(k) Plan will reduce and offset the
Employer Contribution calculated under provisions of this Plan. The Plan
Administrator may set the amount of the Employer Contribution and may, in its
sole and absolute discretion, base that amount on a formula that takes into
account a Participant s overall compensation. 

7  

Section 5.2                                        Allocation of
Employer Contributions .  A
Participant s Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be allocated among
the same Investment Funds and in the same proportion as the Participant has
elected for his or her Base Salary deferral for that Plan Year. 

Section 5.3                                        Distribution of
Employee Contributions .  An Employer
Contribution for a Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant according
to the election made by the Participant governing his or her Base Salary
deferrals for that same Plan Year. 

ARTICLE 6   

Maintenance and Crediting of Accounts   

Section 6.1                                        Maintenance of
Accounts . 

(a)                                      The Plan shall maintain a separate
Account for each Deferral Election (a  Deferral Account ) made by and each
Employer Contribution (an  Employer Contribution Account ) made for a
Participant. A Participant s Accounts shall reflect the Participant s
Investment Fund Elections and Distribution Elections made pursuant to  Article 4 , any Employer Contributions made on behalf of
the Participant pursuant to  Article 5 ,
adjustments to the Account made pursuant to this  Article 6 ,
and distributions made with respect to the Account pursuant to  Article 8 . The Accounts shall be used solely as a
device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the
Participants pursuant to this Plan and shall not constitute or be treated as a
trust fund of any kind.  

(b)                                     Each Account shall be divided into
separate subaccounts ( Investment Fund Subaccounts ), each of which corresponds
to the Investment Fund selected by the Participant pursuant to  Section 4.2(b) .  

Section 6.2                                        Crediting of
Accounts . 

(a)                                      No later than five (5) business
days following the end of each pay period, the Plan shall credit each
Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect amounts deferred from the
Participant s Eligible Compensation during that pay period and the Investment
Fund Election made by the Participant with respect to that Eligible
Compensation.  

(b)                                     No later than ten (10) business
days following the end of each fiscal quarter, the Plan shall credit each
Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect any Employer Contribution
deemed to have been made on behalf of the Participant for that fiscal quarter
and the allocation of that contribution among the Investment Funds pursuant to  Section 8.3 .  

(c)                                      Each month, the Plan shall adjust
each Investment Fund Subaccount to reflect any transfers under the Plan to or
from that Investment Fund Subaccount, any distributions under the Plan made
with respect to that Investment Fund Subaccount, and the Rate of Return on the
related Investment Fund. The Plan shall, however, calculate the Rate of Return
for each Investment Fund Subaccount on each business day.  

8  

Section 6.3                                        Statement of
Accounts .  Each Participant shall be
issued quarterly statements of his or her Account(s) in such form as the
Plan Administrator deem desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of
such Participant in his or her Account(s) as of the end of the most
recently completed quarter. 

ARTICLE 7   

Vesting and Forfeitures   

Section 7.1                                        Deferral
Accounts .  A Participant s Deferral
Accounts shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable at all
times. 

Section 7.2                                        Employer
Contribution Account . 

(a)                                      A Participant s Employer
Contribution Account shall become one hundred percent (100%) vested and
non-forfeitable when the matching contributions made by the Participant s
Employer on behalf of the Participant under the Employer 401(k) Plan in
which the Participant participates become one hundred percent (100%) vested and
non-forfeitable.  

(b)                                     If a Participant s employment with
the Employers terminates (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before the
matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the
Participant under the Employer 401(k) Plan in which the Participant
participates become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable, then
the Participant shall forfeit his or her related Employer Contribution Account.  

ARTICLE 8   

Distribution of Benefits   

Section 8.1                                        Distribution of
Benefits in the Event of Termination of Employment .  If a Participant elects to receive his or her
Plan Benefits as an In-Service Distribution, then in the event of that
Participant s Retirement or the termination of that Participant s employment
with the Employers for any reason (whether or not voluntary) other than
Retirement or Disability prior to receiving that In-Service Distribution, the
Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the
Participant as soon as practical following his or her termination of
employment. 

Section 8.2                                        In-Service
Distributions .  Subject to the
provisions of  Section 8.6 , the Company
shall pay In-Service Distributions in a lump-sum to the Participant on or about
February 1 st  of the year designated by the Participant on
his or her Distribution Election Form or as soon as practical thereafter. 

Section 8.3                                        Distribution of
Benefits in the Event of Disability or Retirement . 

(a)                                      If, pursuant to  Section 4.3 
a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits upon his or her
Disability or Retirement and if at the time of that Disability or Retirement
the Participant has more than a total of $25,000 to be distributed from his or
her Account using the same distribution method, then the Company shall pay the
Participant his or  

9  

her Plan benefits commencing as soon as practical after the Participant s
Disability or Retirement in any of the following forms:  

(i)                                         in substantially equal quarterly
installments to the Participant over fifteen (15) years; or  

(ii)                                      in substantially equal quarterly
installments to the Participant over ten (10) years; or  

(iii)                                   in substantially equal quarterly
installments to the Participant over five (5) years; or  

(iv)                                  in a lump-sum; or  

(v)                                     if no such election is on file with
the Plan Administrator, in the form specified in  Section 8.3(a)(ii)  hereof.  

(b)           If
a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits upon his or her
Disability or Retirement and if at the time of that Disability or Retirement
the Participant has $25,000 or less credited to his or her Account, then the
Participant (or in the event of the Participant s death, the Participant s
Beneficiary) shall receive, and the Company shall pay, the Participant s Plan
benefits in a lump-sum as soon as practical after the Participant s Disability
or Retirement.  

(c)           In
the event of a Participant s death, the Company shall pay his or her total
Account balance, including any unpaid installments, to his or her Beneficiary
in a lump sum as soon as practical after the Participant s death.  

Section 8.4              Hardship
Distributions .  

(a)           A
Participant may receive the early payment of all or part of the balance in his
or her Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency (a  Hardship
Distribution ) subject to the following restrictions:  

(i)                                         The Participant has requested the
Hardship Distribution from the Plan Administrator on a form provided by or in
the format requested by the Plan Administrator;  

(ii)                                      The Plan Administrator has
determined that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred;  

(iii)                                   The Plan Administrator determines
the amount of the Hardship Distribution; and  

(iv)                                  The Hardship Distribution shall be
distributed in a lump-sum as soon as practical following the determination by
the Plan Administrator of the amount of the Hardship Distribution.  

10  

(b)           The
circumstances that would constitute a Unforeseeable Emergency will depend on
the facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a Hardship
Distribution may not be made to the extent that such hardship may be relieved
through (i) reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation
of the Participant s assets, to the extent that liquidation of the Participant s
assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by
cessation of deferrals under this Plan.  

Section 8.5              Early
Distributions .  A Participant may
receive an early payment of all or a part of the balance in his or her Account(s) subject
to the following restrictions ( Early Distribution ):  

(a)           The
Participant requests an Early Distribution of at least fifty percent (50%) of
the balance in his or her Account(s) on a form provided by or in the
format requested by the Plan Administrator;  

(b)           The
Early Distribution shall be distributed in a lump-sum as soon as practical
following the Plan Administrator s receipt of the Participant s request in
accordance with the provisions of this  Section 8.5 ;  

(c)           If
the Participant receives an Early Distribution, then the Participant shall be
deemed to have revoked his or her Deferral Election for the Plan Year and may
not make a Deferral Election for the remainder of that Plan Year nor the
following Plan Year; and  

(d)           A
Participant shall receive ninety percent (90%) of the amount of the Early
Distribution he or she requests and the remaining ten percent (10%) of such
amount shall be forfeited by the Participant.  

Section 8.6              Postponing
or Amending Distributions .  A
Participant may postpone, no more than twice each Plan Year, a scheduled
In-Service Distribution to a date that is at least two (2) years after the
previously scheduled distribution date by filing a form provided by or in the
format requested by the Plan Administrator at least one year prior to the date
previously elected by the Participant for that In-Service Distribution. A
Participant may amend the method of distribution specified in  Section 8.3(a)  by filing a form provided by or in
the format requested by the Plan Administrator; provided, however, that in the
event of a Participant s Retirement or Disability within one (1) year of
any such amendment, the amendment shall be voided and the most recent election
on file with the Administrator shall govern.  

ARTICLE 9   

Beneficiary Designation   

Section 9.1              Beneficiary
Designation .  Each Participant shall
have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his
or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. A Beneficiary designation shall be made,
and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a written designation with the
Plan Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the
Plan Administrator may establish from time to time.  

11  

Section 9.2              Failure
to Designate a Beneficiary .  If a
Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above,
or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her
Beneficiary, then the Participant s Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the
following order:  

(i)                                         to the spouse of such person, if
any; or  

(ii)                                      to the deceased person s estate.  

Section 9.3              Facility
of Payment .  When, in the Plan
Administrator s opinion, a Participant or Beneficiary is under a legal
disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his or
her financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may make any benefit payments to
the Participant or Beneficiary s legal representative, or spouse, or the Plan
Administrator may apply the payment for the benefit of the Participant or
Beneficiary in any way the Plan Administrator considers advisable.  

ARTICLE 10   

Administration of Plan   

Section 10.1            Plan
Administrator .  The Board of Review,
or such person as the Board of Review shall designate pursuant to  Section 10.3 , shall serve as the Plan Administrator of
the Plan. The administration of the Plan shall be under the supervision of the
Plan Administrator. It shall be a principal duty of the Plan Administrator to
see that the Plan is carried out, in accordance with its terms, for the
exclusive benefit of persons entitled to participate in the Plan without
discrimination among them. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the
Plan Administrator decides, in his or her discretion, that the applicant is
entitled to them. The Plan Administrator will have full power to administer the
Plan in all of its details, subject to applicable requirements of law. For this
purpose, the Plan Administrator s powers will include but will not be limited
to, the following authority, in addition to all other powers provided by this
Plan:  

(i)                                         To make and enforce such rules and
regulations as it deems necessary or proper for the efficient administration of
the Plan, including the establishment of any claims procedures that may be
required by applicable provisions of law;  

(ii)                                      To exercise discretion in
interpreting the Plan, any interpretation to be reviewed under the arbitrary
and capricious standard;  

(iii)                                   To exercise discretion in deciding
all questions concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any person to
participate in the Plan; such decision to be reviewed under the arbitrary and
capricious standard;  

(iv)                                  To appoint such agents, counsel,
accountants, consultants and other persons as may be required to assist in
administering the Plan;  

12  

(v)                                    To allocate and delegate its
responsibilities under the Plan and to designate other persons to carry out any
of its responsibilities under the Plan, any such allocations, delegation or
designation to be in writing;  

(vi)                                 To determine the amount and type of
benefits to which any Participant or Beneficiary shall be entitled hereunder;  

(vii)                              To receive from the Employers and
from Participants such information as shall be necessary for the proper
administration of the Plan or any of its programs;  

(viii)                           To maintain or cause to be
maintained all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan;  

(ix)                                   To receive, review and keep on file
(as it deems convenient and proper) reports of benefit payments made by the
Plan;  

(x)                                      To determine and allocate among the
Employers the liability to the Company associated with Plan benefits in
accordance with  Section 1.3  and to determine
the time at which and manner in which that liability shall be paid to the
Company;  

(xi)                                   To make, or cause to be made,
equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of
the Plan; and  

(xii)                                To do all other acts which the Plan
Administrator deems necessary or proper to accomplish and implement its
responsibilities under the Plan.  

Section 10.2            Reliance
on Tables, etc.   In administering the
Plan, the Plan Administrator will be entitled to the extent permitted by law to
rely exclusively on all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports
which are furnished by, or in accordance with the instructions of accountants,
counsel, or other experts employed or engaged by the Plan Administrator.  

Section 10.3            Delegation .  The Board of Review shall have the authority
to appoint another corporation or one or more other persons to serve as the
Plan Administrator hereunder, in which event such corporation or person (or
persons) shall exercise all of the powers, duties, responsibilities, and
obligations of the Plan Administrator hereunder.  

Section 10.4            Operations .  The day to day operation of the Plan will be
handled by the Corporate Benefits Department of the Company or the person or
persons designated by the Plan Administrator.  

Section 10.5            Uniform
Rules .  The Plan Administrator shall
administer the Plan on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis and shall apply
uniform rules to all similarly situated Participants.  

13  

Section 10.6            Plan
Administrator s Decisions Final .  Any
interpretation of the provisions of the Plan (including but not limited to the
provisions of any of its Programs) and any decision on any matter within the
discretion of the Plan Administrator made by the Plan Administrator in good
faith shall be binding on all persons. A misstatement or other mistake of fact
shall be corrected when it becomes known and the Plan Administrator shall make
such adjustment on account thereof as it considers equitable and practicable.
Neither the Plan Administrator nor any Employer shall be liable in any manner
for any determination of fact made in good faith.  

ARTICLE 11   

Claims for Benefits   

Section 11.1            Claims
and Review Procedure .  The Plan
Administrator shall adopt procedures for the filing and review of claims in
accordance with Section 503 of ERISA.  

ARTICLE 12   

Amendment and Termination of Plan   

Section 12.1            Amendment .  The Company may amend this Plan, in whole or
in part, at any time provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to
decrease the balance in any Account as accrued at the time of such amendment.
Any amendment which would allow officers of the Company to participate in the
Plan shall require the approval of the Abbott Laboratories Board of Directors.
Any amendment which increases the total cost of the Plan to the Employers in
excess of $250,000 in each of the three full calendar years next following the
date of the amendment shall be approved by the Board of Review. The Senior Vice
President, Human Resources of the Company shall approve all other amendments to
the Plan and the extension of the Plan to any division or Subsidiary of the
Company.  

Section 12.2            Company s
Right to Terminate .  The Board of
Review may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Deferral
Elections. The Board of Review may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at
any time for any reason, including without limitation if, in its judgment, the
continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or
potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of the
Company, and upon any such termination, the Company shall pay to the Participant
the benefits the Participant is entitled to receive under the Plan as monthly
installments over a three (3) year period commencing within ninety (90)
days (determined as of the most recent Valuation Date preceding the termination
date).  

ARTICLE 13   

Miscellaneous   

Section 13.1            Unfunded
Plan .  This Plan is intended to be an
unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred
compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees,
within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to
be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. All payments  

14  

pursuant to
the Plan shall be made from the general funds of the Company and no special or
separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to
assure payment. No Participant or other person shall have under any
circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of the Company
as a result of participating in the Plan.  

Section 13.2            Nonassignability .  Except as specifically set forth in the Plan
with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any
other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge,
anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in
advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part
thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be
unassignable and nontransferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior
to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of
any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or
any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a
Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency.  

Section 13.3            Validity
and Severability .  The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full
force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction
shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other
jurisdiction.  

Section 13.4            Governing
Law .  The validity, interpretation,
construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by
the laws of the State of Illinois, without reference to principles of conflict
of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.  

Section 13.5            Employment
Status .  This Plan does not
constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or the Company
any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of the Company or
change the status of the Participant s employment or the policies of the Company
and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.  

Section 13.6            Underlying
Incentive Plans and Promotion . 
Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the Company from modifying, amending
or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to
which Eligible Bonuses or Eligible Compensation are earned and which are
deferred under this Plan.  

Section 13.7            Successors
of the Company .  The rights and
obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and
shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company.  

Section 13.8            Waiver
of Breach .  The waiver by the Company
of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate
or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.  

Section 13.9            Notice .  Any notice or filing required or permitted to
be given to the Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and
hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of the
Company, directed to the attention of the Plan Administrator. Such notice shall
be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as
of the date shown on the postmark.  

15  

Section 13.10          Waiver
of Notice .  Any notice required under
the Plan may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

Section 13.11          Evidence .  Evidence required of anyone under the Plan
may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the
person acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or
presented by the proper party or parties.  

Section 13.12          Additional
Employers .  Subject to the consent of
the Board of Review, any Subsidiary of the Company may adopt the Plan by filing
a written instrument to that effect with the Company.  

Section 13.13          Separation
and Distribution Agreement of 2004 . 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary but
subject to the provisions of this  Section 13.13 ,
if an Eligible Employee who is a Participant in the Plan transfers from
employment with the Company or an Employer to Hospira, Inc. or to a
subsidiary of Hospira, Inc. (collectively, the  Hospira Companies ) as a
result of the transactions contemplated by that certain Separation and
Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc.,
dated as of April 12, 2004
(the  Distribution Agreement ), and such transfer of employment is made in
accordance with and subject to the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement as
described in the Distribution Agreement (each such transferred Participant
referred to herein as a  Transferred Hospira Participant ), then the following
provisions shall apply to each such Transferred Hospira Participant:  

(a)                                     A
Transferred Hospira Participant s transfer of employment to the Hospira
Companies will not be considered as a termination of employment as a result of
Termination of Employment, Retirement or Disability for purposes of determining
eligibility for distributions under  Article 8 
of the Plan.  Such Transferred Hospira
Participant s termination of employment resulting from Termination of
Employment, Retirement or Disability shall occur only upon his or her
subsequent termination of employment from the Hospira Companies (and
Termination of Employment, Retirement and Disability with respect to such
Transferred Hospira Participants shall mean such events in relation to the
Hospira Companies rather than in relation to the Company and the Employers); 

(b)                                    Following
his or her transfer to employment with the Hospira Companies, a Transferred
Hospira Participant will remain a Participant but may no longer make Deferral
Elections.  A Transferred Hospira
Participant shall remain a Participant until (i) his or her death or (ii) his
or her Accounts have been distributed in accordance with the Plan and in
accordance with the Transferred Hospira Participant s elections regarding the
manner of distribution of such Accounts. 

(c)                                     Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this  Section 13.13 ,
a Participant who will transfer to employment with the Hospira Companies on the
Distribution Date may elect, prior to the Distribution Date as defined in the
Distribution Agreement, to have his or her transfer of 

16  

employment treated as a
termination of employment with the Company and the Employer, in which case such
Participant will be treated as having a Termination of Employment on the
Distribution Date and his or her Accounts will be distributed in accordance
with  Article 8 ; provided, however, that
such Accounts shall be distributed as soon as practicable following the
one-year anniversary of the Distribution Date. 
Any election made by a Participant in accordance with this  Section 13.13(c)  shall be made in such form and at
such time as required by the Plan Administrator.  

17  

</EX-4.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 a2188623zex-10_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.2

Exhibit 10.2   

Amended
and Restated effective  

  January 1,
2008  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(K) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN   

SECTION 1  

  INTRODUCTION  

1-1.             PURPOSE.  This Abbott
Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan (the  Plan ) is being established by
Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) to provide eligible management employees of
Abbott an opportunity to accumulate capital for their retirement or other
termination of employment in excess of the contributions allowed under the
Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan ( Stock Plan ). 

1-2.             EFFECTIVE DATE; GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS. 
The Plan became effective as of October 1, 1993 and is hereby
amended and restated, effective as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with
the requirements of Section 409A ( Code Section 409A ) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ).  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the
contrary, any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1,
2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to
participants who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts )
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as
in effect on December 31, 2004, provided that the provisions of the Plan,
as amended effective December 9, 2005 in accordance with Code Section 409A,
shall also apply to Grandfathered Amounts. 
Except as expressly provided above or elsewhere herein, amendments made
to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not
affect the Grandfathered Amounts.  The
terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A
attached hereto. 

1-3.             ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan shall
be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by
the Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board of Directors ). 

SECTION 2  

  ELIGIBILITY
AND PARTICIPATION  

2-1.             PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE. 
Participation in the Plan shall be limited to employees who are serving
as corporate officers of Abbott as of October 1, 1993 or who become
corporate officers thereafter. The term  corporate officer  for purposes of the
Plan shall mean an individual elected an officer of Abbott by its Board of
Directors (or designated as such for purposes of the Plan by the Committee),
but shall not include assistant officers. In the event an employee should cease
to be a corporate officer of Abbott due to demotion or otherwise while
remaining in the employ of Abbott, (a) such employee s elective deferral
in effect for such year shall remain irrevocable, (b) Abbott s matching
contributions under Section 4 shall immediately cease and (c) such
employee shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the end
of such calendar year.  In the event an
employee should cease to be a corporate officer of Abbott due to termination of
employment, such employee shall cease to be eligible to 

participate in the Plan and
any contributions then being made on behalf of such employee shall immediately
cease.  

2-2.             PARTICIPANT.  An eligible
employee may elect to participate in the Plan by electing to have contributions
made on the employee s behalf as provided in Section 5. 

SECTION 3  

  EMPLOYEE
CONTRIBUTIONS  

3-1.             ALLOWABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.  An
eligible employee may elect to have his employer make  pre-tax contributions 
on his behalf in an amount not greater than 18% in total of his compensation in
any calendar year for services rendered to his employer. A pre-tax contribution
made by an employer on behalf of a participant shall reduce the participant s
compensation at the time of payment of such compensation. Each election
hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be in multiples of 1% of compensation. 

3-2.             COMPENSATION.  A participant s  compensation 
shall have the same meaning as that term is used in subsection 7-2 of the Stock
Plan. 

3-3.             MAXIMUM EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS. 
Notwithstanding subsection 3-1, in no event shall the sum of: 

(a)              the participant s total contributions, pre-tax contributions,
supplemental deposits and supplemental pre-tax contributions made under the
Stock Plan; plus 

(b)              the participant s total pre-tax contributions made under the Plan; 

for any calendar year,
exceed 18% of the employee s compensation for such year.  In the event the limitation described in this
subsection 3-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s pre-tax
contributions made under this Plan shall be reduced until the limit is not
exceeded.  

3-4.             CHANGE IN STOCK PLAN. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Sections 3-1 and
3-3 above, no action or inaction by an employee under the Stock Plan may result
in a change in amounts contributed to the Plan in excess of the limit with
respect to elective deferrals under Section 402(g)(1)(A), (B) and (C) of
the Code in effect for the year in which the action or inaction occurs. 

SECTION 4  

  EMPLOYER
CONTRIBUTIONS  

For the calendar year ending
December 31, 1993, and for each subsequent calendar year, Abbott shall
make a contribution on behalf of each participant in the Plan who makes pre-tax
contributions ( basic contributions ) under the Plan during such year at the
rate of two percent (2%) of compensation in excess of, for calendar year 1993,
Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000), and for calendar years subsequent to
1993, the limit in effect for such year under Code Section 40l(a)(17).
Such employer contribution shall be in an amount equal to the contribution the
participant would have received under subsection 8-3 of the Stock Plan with  

2  

respect to such basic
contributions had such basic contributions been made under subsection 7-1 of
the Stock Plan.  

To the extent applicable, a
contribution made by a participant under subsection 5-4 shall be considered a
basic contribution for purposes of this Section 4 to the extent it
includes contributions at the rate of two percent (2%) of compensation for 1993
in excess of Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000).  

SECTION 5  

  ELECTIONS  

5-1.             ANNUAL ELECTIONS REQUIRED. 
Except as provided in Section 5-3, a participant shall elect to
make pre-tax contributions with respect to compensation earned in any calendar
year on or prior to December 31 st  of the prior calendar year.  Each such election shall be in writing, shall
be filed with the Committee, shall be effective only for the calendar year for
which made and shall be irrevocable.  An
employee who fails to make a timely election under this subsection 5-1 for a
calendar year may not contribute to the Plan during the following year. 

5-2.             [Section intentionally omitted.] 

5-3.             NEWLY ELIGIBLE AND NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES.  A newly hired corporate officer described in Section 2-1
shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month
next following the month after the individual s date of hire;  provided ,
that in no event may such individual begin to participate in the Plan later
than 90 days following his or her date of hire. 
An eligible employee described in the preceding sentence (who was not
eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the
Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) shall make the election described
in Section 5-1 within thirty (30) days of the date on which he first
becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any
such election shall become effective for compensation earned no earlier than
the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the
Committee and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the calendar year.  Any other newly eligible employee shall make
the election described in Section 5-1 no later than December 31 st  of the year in which such
employee first becomes eligible under the Plan. 
Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned in the
calendar year following the year in which the election is made. 

5-4.             SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION FOR 1993. 
Employees who are serving as corporate officers of Abbott and who have
established  Grantor Trusts  under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management
Incentive Plan ( MIP ) as of October 1, 1993, may elect to make a lump-sum
contribution based on compensation earned during the period of January 1,
1993 through September 30, 1993 (the  Make-Up Period ) by filing an
election with the Administrator and tendering payment in cash to such Grantor
Trust of the amount of the contribution, not later than October 31,
1993.  Any such contribution shall not
exceed the maximum contribution allowed under subsection 3-3 based on the
employee s Stock Plan contributions made, and compensation earned, during the
Make-Up Period. 

5-5.             GRANTOR TRUST ELECTION.  At the
time of the annual elections described in subsection 5-1, each participant may
elect to have his pre-tax and employer contributions for the following year
deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant under the 

3  

circumstances and on the
terms described in subsection 6-1, rather than defer such contributions under
subsection 5-1.  Any such election shall
be irrevocable and shall apply to all pre-tax contributions made during, and employer
contributions made for, such calendar year on behalf of such participant.  If the participant fails to make an election
under this subsection 5-5, the participant s pre-tax contributions made during,
and employer contribution made for, such calendar year shall be retained by
Abbott and shall not be deposited in a Grantor Trust in the future.  In no event shall such contributions be paid
to the Grantor Trust later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month
period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  

SECTION 6  

  FUNDING
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  

6-1.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE DEPOSITED IN GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions which the participant has filed an election under
subsection 5-5 shall be deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the
participant, as described in subsection 6-3, provided such trust is in a form
which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust attached
to this Plan as Exhibit B. 

6-2.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE RETAINED BY ABBOTT. 
Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for
which the participant has not filed an election under subsection 5-5 shall be
retained by Abbott and credited to a Deferred Account established under
subsection 7-1. 

6-3.             AFTER ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANTOR TRUST. 
After a Grantor Trust has been established by a participant under
subsection 6-1, all pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made
thereafter for which the participant has filed an election under subsection
5-5, shall be deposited in such Grantor Trust (less the aggregate federal,
state and local individual income and employment taxes (determined under
subsection 8-5) attributable to such contributions). Such deposits shall be
made as soon as practicable after the last complete payroll period of the
calendar quarter in which the contributions are made.  The appropriate aggregate federal, state and
local individual income and employment taxes attributable to the contributions
shall be paid directly to the participant. 
In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust or the
participant later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period , as
such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A). 

6-4.             [Section intentionally omitted.] 

6-5.             ELIMINATION OF GRANTOR TRUST FUNDING THRESHOLD.  Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2005, the Grantor Trust
established by the participant shall be funded in accordance with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended. 

6-6.             UTILIZATION OF TRANSITION RELIEF UNDER SECTION 409A OF THE
CODE.  Notwithstanding anything contained
in the Plan to the contrary, pursuant to Q A-20 of Internal Revenue Service
Notice 2005-1 (the  Notice ), Abbott shall cause the amount of all pre-tax and
employer contributions and all associated earnings, including guaranteed rate
payments, for the periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2005 for each
participant who has made a 

4  

Grantor Trust election under
subsection 5-5, to the extent not previously contributed to a Grantor Trust
established by the participant, to be deposited in such Grantor Trust on or
prior to December 31, 2005.  Such
contribution is intended to result in a partial termination of participation in
the Plan as permitted by the Notice. 
Each participant who has established a Grantor Trust and who receives
such contribution shall include the full amount of such Grantor Trust
contribution in the participant s income in 2005.  

SECTION 7  

  ACCOUNTING  

7-1.             SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee
shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to
subsection 5-1 or 5-5 as follows: 

(a)              The Committee shall maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each
participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her
pre-tax contributions under subsection 5-1. 
The Deferred Account shall be comprised of any pre-tax contributions
made on behalf of the participant under subsection 3-1 and any other
allocations made on behalf of the participant under Section 4, in each
case, for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-5,
and any adjustments made pursuant to subsection 7-2. 

(b)              The Committee shall maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account 
and an  After-Tax Account , in the name of each participant who has declined to
defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her pre-tax and
employer contributions deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to
subsection 5-5.  The Pre-Tax Account
shall consist of the aggregate of all pre-tax contributions contemplated by
subsection 3-1, whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or made in
cash to the participant, and any adjustments in accordance with subsection
7-3.  The After-Tax Account shall consist
of employer contributions deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash
according to subsection 5-5 and any adjustments made in accordance with
subsection 7-4. 

7-2.             ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. 
No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s
Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows: 

(a)              FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the
participant during that year pursuant to subsections 7-11 or 7-12; 

(b)              NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions made on behalf of such participant for that year for
which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-5; and 

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that
year pursuant to subsection 7-5. 

7-3.             ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS. 
No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s
Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows: 

5  

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to
receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the
distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate
amounts allocated according to subsection 5-5 had instead been deferred under
subsection 5-1; 

(b)              NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are
paid to the participant (including any contributions paid to the participant s
Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5-5; 

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that
year pursuant to subsection 7-5. 

7-4.             ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS. 
No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s
After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows: 

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a
benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as
provided by subsection 7-16 which represents the distribution for such year; 

(b)              NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are
deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-5; 

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned
for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5. 

7-5.             INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS. 

(a)              No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s
Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with
interest ( Interest ) at the following rate: 

(i)       the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by the Wall
Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on
the first business day of January and the last business day of each month
of the calendar year; plus 

(ii)      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points. 

(b)              No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s
After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth
above, multiplied by the aggregate of the federal, state and local individual
income tax rates determined in accordance with subsection 8-5 (the  After-Tax
Interest ). 

(c)              The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited
on the conditions established by the Committee. 

6  

7-6.             GUARANTEED RATE PAYMENTS.  In
addition to any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant for any
calendar year pursuant to section 4, Abbott shall also make a payment to a
participant s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each year in
which the Grantor Trust is in effect. 
The Guaranteed Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of  the participant s  Net Interest Accrual  (as
defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the
year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of
the following calendar year. A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is
an amount equal to: the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s
After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 7-5. 

7-7.             GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each
participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments
specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established,
may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect
until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided
further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions
of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as
Attachment A. 

7-8.             DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES. 
Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each
participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary
designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection 7-6, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary
beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or
beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account
under the Plan.  Beneficiaries may be a
natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the
legal representative of an estate.  Any such
designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such
beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary,
upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of
the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to
the designation of beneficiaries are as follows: 

(a)              A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further
beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next
preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so
provided in writing; and 

(b)              A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or
beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to
receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or
estate of which it is a fiduciary. 

Any beneficiary designation
or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised
only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation
or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of Abbott during such
person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased
nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as
provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no
beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the
Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining
from time to time to either:  

7  

(i)       any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving
spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and
in such proportions as the Committee determines; or 

(ii)      the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or
deceased beneficiary as the case may be. 

7-9.             NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their
beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and
other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold,
transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this section
shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to
a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 7-6.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a
participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or
beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the
participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary,
or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the
participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines. 

7-10.           PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any employer contribution made on behalf of a
participant in the Plan and any interest credited with respect thereto will be
paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was
employed during the calendar year for which any amount was contributed, and for
that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more
employers during any calendar year the amount allocated under this Plan for
that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in
proportion to the respective amounts of compensation paid by each of them in
that calendar year. 

7-11.           MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. 
Subject to subsection 7-12, a participant shall elect to receive payment
of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a
minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his election
for such calendar year under subsection 5-1. 
Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first
business day of January of the year following the year in which the
participant incurs a termination of employment. 

7-12.           PAYMENT UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL. Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of
employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years
following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting
a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is
defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a
participant whose contributions under the Plan are deferred in accordance with
subsection 5-1, the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred
Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days
following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect
to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are made pursuant to
subsection 5-5, (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid
contributions under subsection 5-5 (if any) for the fiscal year in which the
termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed
Rate Payment under subsection 7-6 attributable to the portion of the year
elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s
Grantor 

8  

Trust in a lump sum within
thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  

7-13.           CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in
Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following
dates: 

(a)              the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities
beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott
or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a
Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of
paragraph (c) below; or 

(b)              the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date
hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a
director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or
threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent
solicitation, relating to the election of directors of Abbott) whose
appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by
Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for
election was previously so approved or recommended; or 

(c)              the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of
Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any other
corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately
following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately
prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of
Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the
entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the
ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of
Abbott outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing
to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting
securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with
the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an
employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of
the combined voting power of the securities of Abbott or such surviving entity
or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or
consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a
recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott
(not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any
securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or
more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities; or 

(d)              the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of complete
liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an agreement for
the sale or 

9  

disposition by Abbott of all
or substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by
Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least
50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue
of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions
immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of Abbott
immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to
have    substantially the same
proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the
assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of
transactions.  

For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate 
shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities
pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned,
directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  

7-14.           POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential
Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances
described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided,
however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than
the occurrence of a Change in Control): 

(a)              Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result
in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in
Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the
expiration or other termination of all such agreements. 

(b)              Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through
(iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to
consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in
Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this
paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention,
or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable
chance that such actions would be consummated. 

10  

(c)           Any
Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of
Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common
stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding
securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person
which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  

(d)           The
Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this
Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential
Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist
upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise
to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control
have expired or no longer exist.  

7-15.        PROHIBITION
AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of
subsections 7-12, 7-13, 7-14 and this subsection 7-15 may not be amended or
deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during
the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period
beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

7-16.        ADMINISTRATOR S
CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate
the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in
which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the
amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 7-3(a), by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax
Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which
is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  

SECTION 8 
MISCELLANEOUS  

8-1.          RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and
regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and
efficient administration of the Plan.  

8-2.          TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary
or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local
tax, attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan after giving the
person entitled to receive such amount notice as far in advance as practicable,
and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy
such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  

8-3.          RIGHTS
OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of
participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected
by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan.
Nothing contained in the Plan shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to
segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment
of any amounts which may have been deferred. 
The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established pursuant to
subsection 7-1 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no
trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be
implied.  Participant s rights shall be
limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are
contemplated   

11  

by the Plan. 
Any decision made by the Committee which is within his sole and
uncontrolled discretion, shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons
whomsoever.  

8-4.          TAX
GROSS UP.  In addition to the employer
contribution provided under Section 4, each participant who has
established a Grantor Trust (or, if the participant is deceased, the
beneficiary designated under the participant s Grantor Trust) shall be entitled
to a Tax Gross Up payment for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in
effect.  Payment of the Tax Gross Up (as
defined below) shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as Abbott
shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets, no later than
the end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related
taxes.  The  Tax Gross Up  shall equal:  

(a)           the
amount necessary to compensate the participant (or beneficiary) for the net increase
in the participant s (or beneficiary s) federal, state and local income taxes
as a result of the inclusion in his taxable income of the income of the
participant s Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate Payment for that year; plus  

(b)           an
amount necessary to compensate the participant (or beneficiary) for the net
increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a result of the inclusion
in his taxable income of any payment made pursuant to this subsection 8-4.  

8-5.          INCOME
TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of
Sections 7 and 8, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be
the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the
calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and
state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of
individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s
residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax
benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  

8-6.          GENDER.  For purposes of the Plan, words in the
masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the singular
shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  

8-7.          MANNER
OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of
the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may
act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any
instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to
sign.  The Committee from time to time
may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection
with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the
Committee may select.  Except as otherwise
expressly provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be
paid by Abbott.  Any notice required to
be given to, or any document required to be filed with the Committee, will be
properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to the Secretary of
Abbott.  

8-8.          RELIANCE
UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and
the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any
Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants,
and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the
Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part,
excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they
be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  

12  

8-9.          CHANGE
OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No
change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any
period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict
compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-2(b), to the extent subject thereto.  

8-10.        SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that
the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted
in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect
until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the
extent permitted by Code Section 409A). 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all
purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a
termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from
service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent
required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A
and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under
the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the
date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the
expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to
the rate of Interest provided in subsection 7-5(a) (to the extent that
such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 7-6),
from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid
until the actual date of payment.  In
addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment
payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of
Code Section 409A.  

SECTION 9 
AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF 
CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS  

The Plan will be effective from its effective
date until terminated by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to
amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time. No such
amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent
obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such
amendment or termination.  

13  

EXHIBIT A   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(k) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN   

[Abbott Laboratories 401(k)
Supplemental Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott
Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 9, 2005.]  

EXHIBIT B   

IRREVOCABLE
GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   

THIS AGREEMENT, made this
           day of
                        ,
    , by and between
                        
of
                        ,
Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago,
Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and
maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the
Abbott Laboratories 40l(k) Supplemental Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time;  

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  

ARTICLE I 
INTRODUCTION  

I-1.          NAME.
This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to
as the  ________ Grantor Trust .  

I-2.          THE
TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any
date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  

I-3.          STATUS
OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be
irrevocable. The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections
671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed
accordingly.  

I-4.          THE
ADMINISTRATOR. Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator 
of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under
this agreement as described below. Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without
further inquiry or verification.  

I-5.          ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and
obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it
by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any
proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this
agreement.  

ARTICLE II 
DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND  

II-1.         DEFERRED
ACCOUNT.  The administrator shall
maintain a  deferred account  under the trust. As of the end of each calendar
year, the administrator shall charge the deferred account with all
distributions made from such account during that year; and credit such account
with income and realized gains and charge such account with expenses and
realized losses for the year.  

II-2.         DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to
the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the
grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a
subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each
year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a
portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance
of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of
the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the
amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if
then living, either in a lump-sum payable as soon as practicable following the
settlement date, or in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each
installment computed by one of the following methods:  

(a)                                      The amount of each installment shall
be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as
of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided
by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the
net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding
the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  

(b)                                     The amount of each installment shall
be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the
end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number
of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the
number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred
account.  

(c)                                      Each installment (after the first
installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum
of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the
rate determined under the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan,
compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred
account for the preceding year.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final
installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall
equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.
The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or
before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date
occurs, may select either the lump-sum or an installment payment method and, if
an installment method is selected, may select both the period (which may not be
less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s
settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be
made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by
the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years,
and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method
described in subparagraph (a) next above. 
Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-2 shall be made as of January 1
of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the
grantor s settlement date occurs.  The
administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment
distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully
protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  

2  

II-3.         DISTRIBUTIONS
AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor,
from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently
or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal
of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be
distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a
trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in
installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method
of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the
death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the
executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method
of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be
distributed in a lump sum to such trust. 
Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which
the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are
being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income
earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual
installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income
by written notice to the trustee.  Each
designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall
be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the
grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails
to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump
sum. If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on
the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund
in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  

II-4.         FACILITY
OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a
distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion,
is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial
affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal
representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s
benefit.  Any distribution made in
accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge
of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  

II-5.         PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the
last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of
this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance
in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  

ARTICLE III 
MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND  

III-1.        GENERAL
POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect
to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to
those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  

(a)           Subject
to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to
sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with
all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such
terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  

3  

(b)           To
retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest
and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between
principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its
agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment
fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or
retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting
risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  

(c)           To
deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank
acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in
savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of
interest in any such depositary.  

(d)           To
invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any
common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the
trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  

(e)           To
borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from
time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to
mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  

(f)            To
retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for
interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final
adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate
release is obtained.  

(g)           To
begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the
administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or
required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  

(h)           To
compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  

(i)            To
give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone
or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures,
reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of
any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion
rights.  

(j)            To
hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or
in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  

(k)           To
divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly
in kind.  

(l)            To
pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of
any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to
require before making any payment such release or other document from any
lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the
trustee considers necessary for its protection.  

4  

(m)          To
deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate
or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the
grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even
though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity,
without liability for any loss that may result.  

(n)           To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to
act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or
all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act,
and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or
the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers,
duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any
action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  

(o)           To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as
custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have
such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  

(p)           To
employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them
such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be
protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so
employed without court action.  

(q)           To
perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate
for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  

III-2.        PRINCIPAL
AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the
trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be
accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The
grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held
by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  

III-3.        STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly
to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to
each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement
(or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all
investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the
trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value
thereof at the end of such period.  

III-4.        COMPENSATION
AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs,
charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including
compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants
and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection
with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from
the trust fund.  

5  

ARTICLE IV 
GENERAL PROVISIONS  

IV-1.        INTERESTS
NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the
grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to
their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily
sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  

IV-2.        DISAGREEMENT
AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement
between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any
accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by
any proper court.  

IV-3.        TRUSTEE S
OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or
responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this
agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to
determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper
under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such
delivery or distribution.  The trustee
shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed
pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is
entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made
in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not
proper under the terms of this agreement.  

IV-4.        GOOD
FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or
non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on
all persons.  No one shall be obliged to
see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the
trustee.  The certificate of the trustee
that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons
dealing with the trustee.  

IV-5.        WAIVER
OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under
this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

IV-6.        CONTROLLING
LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois
shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this
agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration,
investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  

IV-7.        SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all
persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and
legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  

ARTICLE V 
CHANGES IN TRUSTEE  

V-1.         RESIGNATION
OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may
resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the
administrator and the grantor.  The
administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the
grantor.  

V-2.         APPOINTMENT
OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator
shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by
written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice
thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then
entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as
defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  

6  

V-3.         DUTIES
OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall
furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of
its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each
successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its
predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each
predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to
vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the
powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally
liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the
approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account
furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring
any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to
the predecessor trustee.  

ARTICLE VI 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  

VI-1.                           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this
trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living,
otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or
distributions hereunder, except as follows:  

(a)                                      The duties and liabilities of the
trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  

(b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as
to make the trust revocable.  

VI-2.                           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all
rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or
reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries
shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed
by the trustee as provided in Article II.  

*      *      *  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the
trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor  

The Northern Trust Company, as Trustee  

By  

Its  

7  

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 a2188623zex-10_3.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.3

Exhibit 10.3   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN    

(As amended and
restated effective January 1, 2008)   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   

Section 1 
INTRODUCTION   

1-1.                                 On September 9, 1977, December 14,
1979 and February 10, 1984 the Board of Directors of Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott )
adopted certain resolutions providing for payment of (i) pension benefits
calculated under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan ( Annuity Plan )
in excess of those which may be paid under that plan under the limits imposed
by Section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) and (ii) the additional
pension benefits that would be payable under the Annuity Plan if deferred awards
under the Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan were included in  final
earnings  as defined in the Annuity Plan. 
The ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN (this  Supplemental
Plan ) clarified, restated and superseded the prior resolutions and is hereby
amended and restated in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  

1-2.                                 The Supplemental Plan shall apply to
employees of Abbott and its subsidiaries and affiliates existing as of the date
of adoption of the Supplemental Plan or thereafter created or acquired.  (Abbott and each of such subsidiaries and
affiliates are hereinafter referred to as an  employer  and collectively as the
 employers ).  

1-3.                                 All benefits provided under the
Supplemental Plan shall be provided from the general assets of the employers
and not from any trust fund or other designated asset.  All participants in the Supplemental Plan
shall be general creditors of the employers with no priority over other
creditors.  

1-4.                                 The Supplemental Plan shall be
administered by the Abbott Laboratories Employee Benefit Board of Review
appointed and acting under the Annuity Plan ( Board of Review ).  Except as stated below, the Board of Review
shall perform all powers and duties with respect to the Supplemental Plan,
including the power to direct payment of benefits, allocate costs among
employers, adopt amendments and determine questions of interpretation.  The Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board
of Directors ) shall have the sole authority to terminate the Supplemental
Plan.  

1-5.                                 Notwithstanding anything in the
Supplemental Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Supplemental Plan that
were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance
with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who retired before January 1,
2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
the Supplemental Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31,
2004.  Amendments made to the
Supplemental Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall
not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the
amendment.  The terms and conditions
applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Appendix A attached
hereto.  

Section 2 
ERISA ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

2-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 2
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension under that plan, on or after September 9, 1977.  

2-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant whose
retirement or vested pension under that plan would otherwise be limited by Section 415,
Internal Revenue Code, shall receive a supplemental pension under this
Supplemental Plan in an amount, which, when added to his or her Annuity Plan
pension (calculated as if such pension had been payable based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4), will equal the amount
the participant would be entitled to under the Annuity Plan as in effect from
time to time, calculated as if such pension had been payable based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, without regard to the
limitations imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code.  

Section 3 
1986 TAX REFORM ACT SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

3-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 3
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension under that plan, after December 31, 1988.  

3-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant shall
receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount
determined as follows:  

(a)                                           The supplemental pension shall be
the difference, if any, between:  

i.                               the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established
hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by
subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section  and  

ii.                            the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the
limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s
 final earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, had included compensation in
excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code,
and any  pre-tax contributions  made by the participant under the Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental 401(k) Plan.  

2  

Section 4   

   DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

4-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 4
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension, under that plan, on or after January 1, 2002 and who
made a Deferral Election under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation
Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ) with respect to any calendar month
during the one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months immediately preceding
retirement or termination of employment.  

4-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant shall
receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount
determined as follows:  

(a)                                           The supplemental pension shall be
the difference, if any, between:  

i.                               the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established
hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by
subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2 and Section 
and  

ii.                            the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the
limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s
 base earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, included deferrals made under
the Deferred Compensation Plan and any compensation in excess of the limits imposed
by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code.  

Section 5 
DEFERRED MIP ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

5-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 5
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension, under that plan, on or after December 14, 1979 and
who were awarded Management Incentive Plan awards for any calendar year during
the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or
termination of employment.  

5-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant shall
receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount
determined as follows:  

(a)                                           The supplemental pension shall be
the difference, if any, between:  

i.                               the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established
hereunder and the pension form selected by the  

3  

participant as
permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2,
Section 3, and Section  and  

ii.                            the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the
limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s
 final earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, were one-sixtieth of the sum
of:  

A.  the
participant s total  basic earnings  (excluding any payments under the
Management Incentive Plan or any Division Incentive Plan) received in the sixty
consecutive calendar months for which his basic earnings (excluding any
payments under the Management Incentive Plan or any Division Incentive Plan) were
highest within the last one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months
immediately preceding his retirement or termination of employment; and  

B.  the
amount of the participant s total awards under the Management Incentive Plan
and any Division Incentive Plan (whether paid immediately or deferred) made for
the five consecutive calendar years during the ten consecutive calendar years
ending with the year of retirement or termination for which such amount is the
greatest and (for participants granted Management Incentive Plan awards for
less than five consecutive calendar years during such ten year period) which
include all Management Incentive Plan awards granted for consecutive calendar
years within such ten year period.  

(b)                                     That portion of any Management
Incentive Plan award which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
of Abbott ( Committee ) has determined shall be excluded from the participant s
 basic earnings  shall be excluded from the calculation of  final earnings  for
purposes of this subsection 5-2.   Final
earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2 shall include any compensation in
excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code.  

(c)                                      In the event the period described in
subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B) is the final five calendar years of employment
and a Management Incentive Plan award is made to the participant subsequent to
retirement for the participant s final calendar year of employment, the
supplemental pension shall be adjusted by adding such new award and subtracting
a portion of the earliest Management Incentive Plan award included in the
calculation, from the amount determined under subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B).  The portion subtracted shall be equal to that  

4  

portion of the
participant s final calendar year of employment during which the participant
was employed by Abbott.  

Section 6 
CORPORATE OFFICER ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

6-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 6
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who are corporate officers
of Abbott as of September 30, 1993 or who become corporate officers
thereafter, and who retire, or terminate with a vested pension under that plan
on or after September 30, 1993.  The
term  corporate officer  for purposes of this Supplemental Plan shall mean an
individual elected an officer of Abbott by its Board of Directors (or
designated as such for purposes of this Section 6 by the Compensation
Committee), but shall not include assistant officers.  

6-2.                                 Subject to the limitations and
adjustments described below, each participant described in subsection 6-1 shall
receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan commencing
on the date determined in accordance with subsection 8-2 and payable as a life
annuity, equal to 6/10 of 1 percent (.006) of the participant s final earnings
(as determined under subsection 5-2) for each of the first twenty years of the
participant s benefit service (as defined in the Annuity Plan) occurring after
the participant s attainment of age 35.  

6-3.                                 In no event shall the sum of (a) the
participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under
subsection 6-2 and (b) of the participant s aggregate percentage of final
earnings calculated under subsection 5-1 of the Annuity Plan, excluding
5-1(a)(ii)(B), exceed the maximum aggregate percentage of final earnings
allowed under subsection 5-1 (also
excluding 5-1(a)(ii)(B)) of the Annuity Plan (without regard to any
limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code), as in effect on the date of the
participant s retirement or termination. 
In the event the limitation described in this subsection 6-3 would
be exceeded for any participant, the participant s aggregate percentage
calculated under subsection 6-2 shall be reduced until the limit is not
exceeded.  

6-4.                                 Benefit service occurring between
the date a participant ceases to be a corporate officer of Abbott and the date
the participant again becomes a corporate officer of Abbott shall be
disregarded in calculating the participant s aggregate percentage under
subsection 6-2.  

6-5.                                 Any supplemental pension otherwise
due a participant under this Section 6 shall be reduced by the amount (if
any) by which:  

(a)                                      the hypothetical benefits that would
be payable to such participant under the Annuity Plan, based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, and this Supplemental
Plan exceeds  

(b)                                     the hypothetical maximum benefit
that would be payable to the participant under the Annuity Plan, calculated
based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form
selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without
regard to the limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) based
on the participant s final earnings (as  

5  

determined
under subsection 5-2), if the participant had accrued the maximum benefit
service recognized by the Annuity Plan.  

6-6.                                 Any supplemental pension due a
participant under this Section 6 shall be actuarially adjusted as provided
in the Annuity Plan to reflect the pension form selected by the participant as
permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 and the participant s age at commencement
of the pension as provided in Section 7.  

Section 7 
CORPORATE OFFICER ANNUITY PLAN 
SUPPLEMENTAL EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT   

7-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 7
shall apply to all persons described in subsection 6-1.  

7-2.                                 The supplemental pension due under
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall
be reduced in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5-3 and
5-6 of the Annuity Plan for each month by which its commencement date precedes
the last day of the month in which the participant will attain age 60.  No reduction will be made for the period
between the last day of the months the participant will attain age 60 and age
62.  

7-3.                                 Each participant described in
subsection 7-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this
Supplemental Plan equal to any hypothetical reduction made in such participant s
Annuity Plan pension in accordance with the rules provided in subsections
5-3 or 5-6 of the Annuity Plan for the period between the last day of the
months the participant will attain age 60 and age 62, calculated as if the
participant had commenced receipt of the participant s Annuity Plan pension on
the same date on which the participant commences receipt of the participant s
supplemental pension based on the distribution rules established hereunder
and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections
8-3 and 8-4.  

Section 8 
MISCELLANEOUS   

8-1.                                 For purposes of this Supplemental
Plan, the term  Management Incentive Plan  shall mean the Abbott Laboratories
1971 Management Incentive Plan, the Abbott Laboratories 1981 Management
Incentive Plan and all successor plans to those plans.  

8-2.                                 The monthly vested supplemental
pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall commence to be paid to
the participant or his or her beneficiary on the last day of the month
following the month in which:  

(a)                                      For the participant hired before
2004, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 50 and the
date such participant s employment is terminated; or  

(b)                                     For the participant hired after
2003, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 55 and the
date such participant s employment is terminated.  

6  

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subsection 8-2, any
participant eligible to make an election under Section 9 may make such
election with respect to any accruals for services performed in the year
following the year such election is made.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subsection 8-2, in the
event that the present value of participant s supplemental pension under
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 does not exceed in the aggregate $25,000 as of the
commencement date of the pension payable to such participant or his or her
beneficiary, and payment of such supplemental pension has not been previously
made under Section 9, the present value of such supplemental pension shall
be paid to such participant in a lump-sum on such commencement date.  

8-3.                                 Except as otherwise specifically
provided, payment of the monthly vested supplemental pension described in
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 shall be made to a participant as follows:  

(a)                                       Life Annuity   . 
A participant who is not legally married on the date as of which such
payments commence shall receive a monthly retirement income or monthly deferred
vested benefit in accordance with the plan payable on a life annuity basis,
with the last payment to be made for the month in which his or her death
occurs.  

(b)                                      50% Joint and Survivor Annuity   . 
A participant who is legally married on the date as of which such
payments commence shall receive a 50% joint and survivor annuity which is
actuarially equivalent to the amount of monthly retirement income or monthly
deferred vested benefit otherwise payable to him or her in accordance with the
plan on a life annuity basis. Such joint and survivor annuity shall consist of
a reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit
continuing during the participant s lifetime, and if the participant s spouse
is living at the date of the participant s death, payment of one-half of such
reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit to such
spouse until the spouse s death occurs, with the last payment to be made for
the month of the death of the last to die of the participant and his or her
spouse. The joint and survivor annuity payable hereunder to or with respect to
a participant who retires on a late retirement date shall be computed as if
such participant had retired on his or her normal retirement date using for the
age of his or her spouse as of his or her late retirement date, that spouse s
age as of his or her normal retirement date.  

8-4.                                 In lieu of the form and amount of supplemental
pension benefit specified in subsection 8-3, a participant may elect, prior to
commencement, a supplemental pension benefit, which is actuarially equivalent
to the form of payment specified in subsection 8-3(a), in the annuity forms
permitted by the Board of Review, provided that the scheduled date for the
first annuity payment is not changed as a result of such election.  For purposes of this provision, the term  actuarially
equivalent  shall have the meaning provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(A),
applying reasonable actuarial methods and assumptions, which must be the same
for each annuity payment option and otherwise comply with the rules provided
by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  

7  

An election under this subsection 8-4 must be
in writing, signed by the participant, and filed with the Board of Review at
such time and in such manner as the Board of Review shall determine; and will
be effective only if the participant s spouse, if any, consents to the election
in writing, and such consent acknowledges the effect of the election and is
witnessed by a plan representative or a notary public. In any case where a
participant elects an optional form of benefit, the option shall be designed so
that more than 50 percent of the actuarial reserve required to provide the
participant s monthly vested supplemental pension benefit in the normal form
will be applied to provide the participant s benefits under the option during
the period of the participant s life expectancy. Payment of an optional form of
benefit will commence no later than the date on which the participant s monthly
supplemental pension benefit would otherwise commence. An election under this
subs 8-4 may not be changed after payment of the participant s supplemental
pension benefit has commenced.  

8-5.          Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, if a participant terminates
employment within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in
Control, the present value of his or her supplemental pension under Sections 2,
3, 4 and 5, but excluding any amounts with respect to which an election under Section 9
has been made, whether or not then payable or vested) shall be paid to such
participant in a lump sum, calculated using reasonable actuarial assumptions
and methods, within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of
employment; provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change
in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-3(i)(5).  The supplemental pension
under Section 2 shall be computed using as the applicable limit under Section 415
of the Internal Revenue Code, such limit as is in  effect on the termination date and based on
the assumption that the participant will receive his or her supplemental
pension in the form of a straight life annuity with no ancillary benefits.  The present values of the supplemental
pensions under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be computed as of the date of
payment using an interest rate equal to the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation interest rate applicable to an immediate annuity, as in effect on
the date of payment.  

8-6.          For
purposes of subsection 8-5, a  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have
occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  

(a)                                      the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of
the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding
any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction
described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  

(b)                                       the date the following individuals
cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then
serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors
and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office
is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but
not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of
Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
election by Abbott s shareholders  

8  

was approved or
recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still
in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment,
election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended;
or  

(c)                                      the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a
merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals
who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at
least a majority of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such
merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott
or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the
securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or
consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar
transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities
Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott
or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  

(d)                                     the date the shareholders of Abbott
approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is
consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or
substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by
Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least
50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or
series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate
ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of
Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  

9  

For purposes of this Supplemental Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the
meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the
Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities
pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned,
directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  

8-7.          POTENTIAL
CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change
in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described
in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that
a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the
occurrence of a Change in Control):  

(a)                                      Abbott enters into an agreement, the
consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control,
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall
cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  

(b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination
by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions
would be consummated.  

(c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more
of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined
voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any
securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired
directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  

(d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a
resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential
Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described
in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the
Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing
for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer
exist.  

8-8.          The
provisions of subsections 8-5, 8-6, 8-7 and this subsection 8-8 may not be
amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Supplemental
Plan, (i) during  

10  

the
pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period
beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

8-9.          All
benefits due under this Supplemental Plan shall be paid by Abbott and Abbott
shall be reimbursed for such payments by the employee s employer.  In the event the employee is employed by more
than one employer, each employer shall reimburse Abbott in proportion to the
period of time the employee was employed by such employer, as determined by the
Board of Review in its sole discretion.  

8-10.        The
benefits under the Supplemental Plan are not in any way subject to the debts or
other obligations of the persons entitled to benefits and may not be
voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned.  

8-11.        Nothing
contained in this Supplemental Plan shall confer on any employee the right to
be retained in the employ of Abbott or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  

8-12.        Upon
adoption of this Supplemental Plan, the prior resolutions shall be deemed
rescinded.  

8-13.        A
participant shall not become vested in the participant s supplemental pension
under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 until the participant has attained sixty
(60) months of vesting service.  For
purposes of the Supplemental Plan, beginning January 1, 1987, a
participant shall be entitled to 1/12  th   of a year of vesting service for each calendar
month (or portion thereof) during which the participant is employed by an
employer; provided, however, that a participant employed by an employer on December 31,
1986 shall receive the greater of vesting service calculated in accordance with
the terms of the Annuity Plan in effect on December 31, 1986 or vesting
service calculated in accordance with the rule immediately above, for
service with an employer after 1986.  The
payments required by Section 8 or Section 9 of the Supplemental Plan
shall, in each case, relate only to the vested portion of a participant s
supplemental pension.  

8-14.        To
the extent applicable, it is intended that the Supplemental Plan comply with
the provisions of Code Section 409A. 
The Supplemental Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner
consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Supplemental Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force
and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be
retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, a participant shall not be considered to have terminated
employment with Abbott or any employer hereunder for purposes of the
Supplemental Plan and no payments shall be due under Supplemental Plan which
are payable upon the participant s termination of employment unless the
participant would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service 
from Abbott within the meaning of Section 409A.  To the extent required to avoid accelerated
taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable
guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to
the Supplemental Plan during the six-month period immediately following the
participant s termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first
business day after the date that is six months following the participant s
termination of employment (or upon the participant s death, if earlier), plus
interest thereon, at a rate equal to the applicable  Federal short-term rate 
(as defined in Section 1274(d) of the Code) for the month in which
such termination of employment  

11  

occurs
(to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant
under subsection 9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would
otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  With respect to expenses eligible for
reimbursement under the terms of the Supplemental Plan, (i) the amount of
such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect
the expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (ii) any
reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were
incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement
does not provide for a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  

Section 9 
ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAL PENSIONS   

9-1.          A
participant who is actively employed by Abbott as a corporate officer as of December 31
of his or her first year as a corporate officer shall elect to receive payment
of the present value of the vested supplemental pension described in
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 which accrues with respect to the subsequent
year by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash
directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of a portion of such
present value in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust
established by the participant, determined to be substantially similar to the
form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Appendix B, and current payment of the
balance of such present value in cash directly to the participant, provided
that the payment made directly to the participant shall be equal to the
aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes
attributable to the amount paid pursuant to this subsection 9-1(b) (as
determined in accordance with subsection 9-12). 
Such election shall be made by the participant on or before December 31
of the calendar year prior to the year in which the present value shall be
accrued.  The payment of any amount
provided under this subsection 9-1 shall be made to the Grantor Trust
established by the participant within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1
of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  

9-2.          If
the present value of a participant s vested and accrued supplemental pension
has been paid to the participant (including amounts paid to the participant s
Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsection 9-1 (either as in effect prior to January 1,
2005 that applied to corporate officers with a present value in excess of
$100,000, or as currently in effect for all corporate officers who are
participants as of the applicable December 31) then, with respect to each
subsequent year of active participation, as of that December 31, a participant
shall be entitled to a payment in an amount equal to (i) the present value
(as of that December 31) of the participant s vested supplemental pension
described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, less (ii) the current value (as
of that December 31) of the payments previously made to the participant
under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 (if any). 
Each year on or before December 31, a participant who is a
corporate officer may elect to receive payment of the amounts described in
subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above for the subsequent calendar year by
either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to
the participant, or (b) current payment of a portion of such amount in
cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant
and current payment of the balance of such amount in cash directly to the
participant, provided that the payment made directly to the participant shall
equal the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment
taxes attributable to the amount paid pursuant to this subsection 9-2(b) (as
determined in accordance with subsection 9-12). 
The payment of any amount provided under this subsection  

12  

9-2
shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the
thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which
such present value is accrued.  No
payments shall be made under this subsection 9-2 as of any December 31
after the calendar year in which the participant retires or otherwise
terminates employment with Abbott.  

9-3.          Present
values for the purposes of subsections 9-1 and 9-2 shall be determined using
reasonable actuarial assumptions specified for this purpose by Abbott and
consistently applied in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  The  current
value  of the payments previously made to a participant under subsection 9-2
means the aggregate amount of such payments, with interest thereon (at the rate
specified in subsection 9.9).  For
purposes of subsections 9-4 and 9-5,  Taxes  with respect to any payment of
supplemental pension benefits under subsections 9-1 or 9-2, shall mean the
taxes which Abbott calculates will be incurred by the participant on the income
earned (i) on the payment (net of taxes) that is made pursuant to
subsections 9-1 or 9-2, (ii) on the corresponding payment(s) for
Taxes that are made pursuant to subsection 9-4 and, if applicable, 9-5 and (iii) on
the accumulated income earned on any of the payments covered by parts (i) and
(ii) hereof, during the life of such participant s Grantor Trust.  In calculating such Taxes, Abbott shall use
the aggregate of the current federal, state and local tax rates specified by
subsection 9-12.  

9-4.          As
a result of any payment made to a participant eligible for payments under this Article 9
for any calendar year pursuant to subsection 9-1 or 9-2, Abbott shall also make
a corresponding payment to such participant in the amount of the Taxes.  The payment for Taxes under this subsection
9-4 shall be made to the participant in the identical manner that the payment
under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 was made. 
For example, (a) if the participant elected to receive the payment
under subsection 9-1 directly in cash, then Abbott shall also pay the Taxes on
such payment in cash directly to the participant, and (b) if the
participant elected to receive the payment under subsection 9-1 into a Grantor
Trust established by the participant, then Abbott shall pay the Taxes on such
payment as follows: current payment of a portion of such Taxes in cash for such
participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by such participant, and
current payment of the balance of such Taxes in cash directly to such
participant, provided that the payment made directly to such participant shall
equal the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes
attributable to the amount paid pursuant to this subsection 9-4(b) (as
determined in accordance with subsection 9-12). 
Such amount shall be paid by Abbott directly to the participant in cash
no later than the end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the
related taxes.  

9-5.  

(a)                                      In the event that Abbott has made
any payment for Taxes in a particular year under subsection 9-4 in cash
directly to the participant and there is a subsequent increase in the tax rates
for such participant in such year, Abbott shall make a further cash payment to
such participant in the amount of (a) the Taxes on the payments that were
made under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in cash directly to such participant
calculated using the actual tax rates for the year less (b) the amount of
such Taxes previously paid.  Such amount
shall be paid by Abbott directly to the participant in cash no later than the
end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related taxes.  

13  

(b)                                     In the event that Abbott has made
any payment for Taxes in a particular year under subsection 9-4 to the
participant s Grantor Trust, then Abbott shall as of December 31 of the
following year, make a further payment to the participant in the amount of (a) the
Taxes on the payments that were made under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 into the
participant s Grantor Trust and in cash directly to the participant calculated
using the actual tax rates for the year less (b) the amount of the Taxes
previously paid.  Such payment shall be
paid by Abbott as follows: the current payment of a portion of such amount in
cash directly to the participant s Grantor Trust and the current payment of the
balance of such amount in cash directly to such participant; provided, that the
payments made directly to such participant shall equal the aggregate federal,
state and local individual income taxes attributable to the amount paid
pursuant to this subsection 9-5 (as determined in accordance with subsection
9-12).  Such amount shall be paid by
Abbott directly to the participant in cash no later than the end of the calendar
year in which the participant remits the related taxes.  

9-6.          For
each participant whose Grantor Trust has received a payment pursuant to
subsections 9-4 or 9-5, Abbott, as the administrator of such Grantor Trust,
shall direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of
such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on trust
earnings for such year.  The taxes shall
be calculated by multiplying the income of the Grantor Trust by the aggregate
of the federal, state, and local tax rates (determined in accordance with
subsection 9-12).  

9-7.          Except
as provided in subsection 9-11, a participant shall be deemed to have
irrevocably waived and shall be foreclosed from any right to receive any
supplemental pension benefits on that portion of the supplemental pension that
the participant elects to be paid in cash under subsection 9-1 or 9-2.  A participant, who has elected to receive a
payment under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to a Grantor Trust, must establish such
trust in a form which Abbott determines to be substantially similar to the
trust attached to this Supplemental Plan as Appendix B.  If a participant fails to make an election
under subsection 9-1 or 9-2, or if a participant makes an election under
subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to receive payment in a Grantor Trust but fails to
establish a Grantor Trust, then payment shall be made in cash directly to the
participant.  

9-8.          Abbott
will establish and maintain a separate Supplemental Pension Account in the name
of each participant, a separate After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account in the
name of each participant, and a separate Tax Payment Account in the name of
each participant.  The Supplemental
Pension Account shall reflect any amounts: 
(i) paid to a participant (including amounts paid to a participant s
Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2; (ii) credited to such
Account pursuant to subsection 9-9; and (iii) disbursed to a participant
for supplemental pension benefits (or which would have been disbursed to a
participant if the participant had not elected to receive a cash disbursement
pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2). 
The After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall also reflect such
amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  The Tax Payment Account shall reflect any
amounts (i) paid to a participant (net of taxes) pursuant to subsections
9-4 and 9-5 and (ii) disbursed to a participant for the payment of taxes
pursuant to subsection 9-6.  The accounts
established pursuant to this subsection 9-8 are  

14  

for
the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship
with respect to such accounts is intended or should be implied.  

9-9.          As
of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Supplemental Pension Account
shall be credited with interest calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%)
per year.  Any amount so credited shall
be referred to as a participant s  Interest Accrual .  The calculation of the Interest Accrual shall
be based on the balance of the payments made pursuant to subsections 9-1 and
9-2 and any Interest Accrual thereon from previous years.  As of the end of each calendar year a
participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with
interest which shall be referred to as the After-Tax Interest Accrual.  The  After-Tax Interest Accrual  shall be an
amount equal to the product of (a) the Interest Accrual credited to the
participant s Supplemental Pension Account for such year multiplied by (b) the
aggregate of the federal, state and local income tax rates (determined in
accordance with subsection 9-12).  

9-10.        In
addition to any payment made to a participant for a calendar year pursuant to
subsections 9-1, 9-2, 9-4 and 9-5, a participant shall also be entitled to a
payment to the participant s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for
each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the
excess of the participant s After-Tax Interest Accrual over the net income of
the participant s Grantor Trust for the year and shall be paid by Abbott
directly to the participant s Grantor Trust within the thirty (30) days
beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which the Guaranteed
Rate Payment is earned.  No payments
shall be made under this subsection 9-10 for any year following the year in
which the participant dies, retires or otherwise terminates employment with
Abbott.  

9-11.        In
addition and notwithstanding the payments made to a participant s Grantor Trust
under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and subject only to the subsequent election
requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), Abbott shall make the
monthly vested supplemental pension payments that would have been payable to
the participant had no payments been made to the participant s Grantor Trust
under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in the form provided by subsection 8-3.  The monthly vested supplemental pension
payments hereunder shall commence on the first business day of February following
the sixth anniversary of the participant s termination of employment and ending
with the month of the participant s (or surviving spouse s) death.  By way of example, (i) if a participant
terminated employment on June 1, 2008, the commencement date would be the
first business day in February, 2015 and (ii) if a participant terminated
employment on January 15, 2008, the commencement date would be the first
business day in February, 2014.  For
purposes of determining the commencement date under this subsection 9-11, a
participant who retired prior to January 1, 2009 but after December 31,
2004 shall be deemed to have terminated employment on March 1, 2008.  Payments under this subsection 9-11 shall be
made by the employers (in such proportions as Abbott shall designate) directly
from their general corporate assets.  Payment
of the annuity required by this subsection 9.11 may be deferred by Abbott in
compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-2(b).  Any election to defer
payment hereunder shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the
election is made; shall be made not less than 12 months before the annuity
commencement date; and shall require payment to be deferred for a period of no
less than five years from such annuity commencement date.  

15  

9-12.        For
purposes of this Supplemental Plan, a participant s federal income tax rate
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income
tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this
Supplemental Plan is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed
to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the
state and locality of the participant s residence in the calendar year for
which such a calculation is to be made, net of any federal tax benefits without
a benefit for any net capital losses.  

9-13.        Each
participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments
specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established,
may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect
until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided
further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions
of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as
Appendix B.  

9-14.        Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1,
2005, (a) with respect to each participant who is actively employed by
Abbott as a corporate officer, the Grantor Trust funding threshold of $100,000
formerly referenced in subsections 8-2, 9-1 and 9-2 of the Plan shall no longer
be applied or have any force or effect and (b) the Grantor Trusts
established by the participants under the Supplemental Plan shall be funded in
accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  

9-15.        Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, pursuant to
Q A-20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 (the  Notice ), Abbott
shall cause the present value of accrued benefits under the Supplemental Plan
for the periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2005 for each
participant who has made a Grantor Trust election under Section 9-1, to
the extent not previously paid to a Grantor Trust established by the
participant, to be deposited in such Grantor Trust on or prior to December 31,
2005.  Such payment is intended to result
in a partial termination of participation in the Supplemental Plan as permitted
by the Notice.  Each participant who has
established a Grantor Trust and who receives such payment shall include the
full amount of such payment to the Grantor Trust in the participant s income in
2005.  

9-16.        Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, with respect to
each participant who (a) has made a Grantor Trust election under Section 9-1
and (b) first became a corporate officer in 2006, 2007 or 2008, Abbott
shall cause such participant s 
Pre-Officer Benefit (as defined below) to be deposited in the Grantor
Trust established by the participant in 2009, to the extent not previously
subject to an election under Section 9-1 and paid to such Grantor
Trust.  For purposes of the Supplemental
Plan,  Pre-Officer Benefit  means the present value of such participant s
accrued supplemental pension benefits which (i) accrued prior to 2007 in
the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer in 2006; (ii) accrued
prior to 2008 in the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer
in 2007; or (iii) accrued prior to 2009 in the case of a participant who
first became a corporate officer in 2008. 
The foregoing amendment is made in accordance with and pursuant to
Q A-19(c) of the Notice and the guidance extending the same for the transition
period ending on December 31, 2008 
For the avoidance of doubt, the amounts deposited in the participant s
Grantor Trusts hereunder shall   

16  

no longer be payable pursuant to subsection
8-2, as such amounts will have been distributed to the respective participants
pursuant to the transition relief described in the preceding sentence.  

17  

APPENDIX A  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN    

[Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, as filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 9, 2005.]  

APPENDIX B  

SUPPLEMENTAL
BENEFIT   

   GRANTOR
TRUST   

THIS
AGREEMENT, made this          day
of                    ,
20    , by and between                           ,
(the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company, located at Chicago, Illinois,
as trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the
grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits
received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  

ARTICLE I 
Introduction   

I-1.           Name .  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced
(the  trust ) may be referred to as the  
                          
Supplemental Benefit Grantor Trust.   

I-2.           The Trust Fund .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all
property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  

I-3.           Status of the Trust .  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor
trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and
shall be construed accordingly.  

I-4.           The Administrator .  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as
the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights
and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator.  The trustee may rely on
the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  

I-5.           Acceptance .  The trustee accepts the duties and
obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it
by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any
proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this
agreement.  

18  

ARTICLE II 
Distribution of the Trust Fund   

II-1.          Supplemental Pension Account .  The administrator shall maintain a  supplemental
pension account  under the trust.  As of
the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the account with
all distributions made from the account during that year; and credit the
account with its share of trust income and realized gains and charge the
account with its share of trust expenses and realized losses for the year.  

II-2.          Distributions Prior to the Grantor s
Death .  Principal and accumulated
income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s
retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of
Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the
administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of
the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to
be accumulated in the trust.  The
administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the
amounts from time to time credited to the supplemental pension account to the
grantor, if then living, in the same manner, at the same time and over the same
period as the pension payable to the grantor under Abbott Laboratories Annuity
Retirement Plan.  

II-3.          Distributions After the Grantor s
Death .  The grantor, from time to
time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or
successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the
principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof
shall be distributed upon the grantor s death. 
The grantor may direct that such amounts be distributed in a lump sum
or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust [a  Trust ] for
which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in the same manner,
at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor s
surviving spouse under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan.  If the grantor directs the same method of
distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts
remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump
sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs the same method of
distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan to a Trust for which the grantor s spouse
is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the
spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such Trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the
beneficiary is a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary,
(ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in
a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds
the amount of the annual installment payment, then such Trust may elect to
withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior
designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the
grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of
distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a
beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall
distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or
administrator of the grantor s estate.   

II-4.          Facility of Payment .  When a person entitled to a distribution
hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative,
or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any  

19  

distribution made in
accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge
of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  

II-5.          Perpetuities .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the
last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of
this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance
in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  

ARTICLE III 
Management of the Trust Fund   

III-1.             General Powers   .  The trustee
shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and
duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  

(a)                                      Subject to the limitations of
subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or
exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust
fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as
the trustee decides.  

(b)                                     To invest and reinvest the trust
fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the
United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith
and credit of the United States Government and in any mutual funds, common
trust funds or collective investment funds which invest solely in such
obligations, provided that to the extent practicable no more than Ten Thousand
Dollars ($10,000) shall be invested in such mutual funds, common trust funds or
collective investment funds at any time; and any such investment made or
retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting
risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  

(c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary
(including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without
liability for interest, in amounts not in excess of those reasonably necessary
to make distributions from the trust.  

(d)                                     To borrow from anyone, with the
administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee
considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or
part of the trust fund as security.  

(e)                                      To retain any funds or property
subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make
payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent
jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  

(f)                                        To begin, maintain or defend any
litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust,
except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless
indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  

(g)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or
abandon claims or demands.  

20  

(h)                                     To give proxies to vote stocks and
other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others)
voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations,
liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation,
and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  

(i)                                         To hold securities or other property
in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without
disclosing the trust relationship.  

(j)                                         To divide or distribute the trust
fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  

(k)                                      To pay any tax imposed on or with
respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is
indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making
any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and
such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for
its protection.  

(l)                                         To deal without restriction with the
legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal
representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in
which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually,
shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may
result.  

(m)                                   Upon the prior written consent of
the administrator, to appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or
corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special
trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the
trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited
or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights,
titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without
liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the
appointing instrument.  

(n)                                     To appoint or remove by written
instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust
fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and
discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  

(o)                                     To employ agents, attorneys,
accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the
trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or
refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court
action.  

(p)                                     To perform any and all other acts
which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management,
investment and distribution of the trust fund.  

III-2.             Principal and Income   . 
Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided
in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the
principal of the   

21  

trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include
all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal
and accumulated income.  

III-3.         Statements .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly
to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to
each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a
statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set
forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected
by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the
value thereof at the end of such period.  

III-4.         Compensation and Expenses .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses
incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the
trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons
employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale,
investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust
fund.  

ARTICLE IV 
General Provisions   

IV-1.         Interests Not Transferable .  The interests of the grantor or other persons
entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other
obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred,
alienated, assigned or encumbered.  

IV-2.         Disagreements as to Acts .  If there is a disagreement between the
trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the
trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any court.  

IV-3.         Trustee s Obligations .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed
on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine
whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the
trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution.  The trustee shall be
protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II
without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; the trustee
shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written
notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this
agreement; and the trustee shall not be liable for any action taken because of
the specific direction of the administrator.  

IV-4.         Good Faith Actions .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its
powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the
application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is
acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with
the trustee.  

IV-5.         Waiver of Notice .  Any notice required under this agreement may
be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

IV-6.         Controlling Law .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall
govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and
all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and
distribution of the trust hereby created.  

22  

IV-7.         Successors .  This agreement shall be binding on all
persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and
legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  

ARTICLE V 
Changes in Trustee   

V-1.          Resignation or Removal of Trustee .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving
thirty days  advance notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by
written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  

V-2.          Appointment of Successor Trustee .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in
the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor
trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then
living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or
distributions under this agreement.  A
successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  

V-3.          Duties of Resigning or Removed
Trustee and of Successor Trustee .  A
trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator
and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from
the date of its last account.  Each
successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its
predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each
predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to
vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the
powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally
liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a
successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered
by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such
acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  

ARTICLE VI 
Amendment and Termination   

VI-1.             Amendment   .  With the
consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by
the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then
entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  

(a)                                      The duties and liabilities of the
trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  

(b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as
to make the trust revocable.  

VI-2.         Termination .  This trust shall not terminate, and all
rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or
reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries
shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed
by the trustee as provided in Article II.  

*     *     *  

23  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day
and year first above written.  

Grantor  

The Northern
  Trust Company, as Trustee  

By  

Its  

24  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 5
 a2188623zex-10_4.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.4

Exhibit 10.4   

1986 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN 
(as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)   

SECTION 1   

INTRODUCTION   

1.1             BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES. This 1986 ABBOTT LABORATORIES
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN (the  Plan ) is a successor Plan to the 1961, 1971
and 1981 Management Incentive Plans (the  Predecessor Plans ). This Plan is
being established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES ( Abbott ) for the following purposes:  

(a)                                      To provide greater incentive for
participants in the Plan to attain and maintain the highest standards of
managerial performance by rewarding them for services rendered with
compensation, in addition to their base salaries, in proportion to the success
of Abbott and to the participants  respective contribution to such success; and  

(b)                                     To attract and retain in the employ
of Abbott and its subsidiaries persons of outstanding competence.  

1.2             EFFECTIVE DATE AND FISCAL YEAR. The Plan became
effective as of January 1, 1986 and is hereby amended and restated as of January 1,
2008, in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  The term  fiscal year,  as used in this Plan,
means the fiscal period from time to time employed by Abbott for the purpose of
reporting earnings to shareholders.  

1.3             ADMINISTRATION. The Plan will be administered by the
Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of
Abbott (the  Board of Directors ).  

1.4             GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS. 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any amounts under
the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined
in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who
retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject
to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31,
2004.  Amendments made to the Plan
pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the
Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the amendment.  The terms and conditions applicable to the
Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  

1  

SECTION 2   

ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   

2.1             PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION. Participation in
the Plan will be limited to those Officers and managerial employees of Abbott
and its subsidiaries who, from time to time, shall be selected as participants
by the Committee.  

2.2             PARTICIPANTS. The term  participant,  as used in the
Plan, shall include both active participants and inactive participants.  

2.3             ACTIVE PARTICIPANTS. For each fiscal year, there shall
be a group of active participants which, except as provided below, shall not
exceed forty-five persons and shall consist of those persons eligible for
participation who shall have been designated as active participants and
notified of that fact by the Committee. 
If, as a result of the growth of Abbott and its subsidiaries or changes
in Abbott s organization, the Board of Directors deems it appropriate, the
Board of Directors may, in its discretion, from time to time, increase the
number of persons who may be designated as active participants for any fiscal
year beyond the limit of forty-five persons provided for above. Selection as an
active participant for any fiscal year shall not confer upon any person a right
to be an active participant in any subsequent fiscal year, nor shall it confer
upon him the right to receive any allocation under the Plan, other than amounts
allocated to him by the Committee pursuant to the Plan, and all such
allocations shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan.  

2.4             INACTIVE PARTICIPANTS. Inactive participants shall
consist of those persons, including beneficiaries of deceased participants, if
any, for whom an allocation shall have been made for a prior fiscal year under
this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, the payment of which was deferred and remains
unpaid. Status as an inactive participant shall not preclude a person from also
being an active participant during any fiscal year.  

SECTION 3   

MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND   

3.1             BASE FOR MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND. The  base
earnings  for determining whether any portion of consolidated net income for
any fiscal year may be allocated to the Management Incentive Plan Fund for such
year shall be that amount of consolidated net income (as defined in subsection
3.2) which is equal to 15 percent of the Abbott Common Shareholder s Equity for
such fiscal year. For this purpose,  Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity  for
any fiscal year shall mean the Shareholders  Investment, as reflected in the
consolidated balance sheet of Abbott as of the close of the next preceding
fiscal year, plus or minus such adjustments thereof as may be determined by the
Committee in order to reflect:  

(a)              The existence, issuance, sale, exchange, conversion or

2  

retirement of any securities, other than
common shares, of Abbott (whether involving preferred stock, debt, convertible
preferred stock or convertible debt securities); and  

(b)             The issuance or retirement of any common shares or any
changes in accounting methods or period adopted by Abbott since the close of
such next preceding fiscal year.  

Any adjustments to be made in accordance with (a) and (b) above
in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity for any fiscal year shall be
determined by the Committee after consultation with Abbott s independent
auditors, and any determination made by the Committee after such consultation
shall be conclusive upon all persons.  

3.2             CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME. For the purposes of this
Plan, for any fiscal year or period, the  consolidated net income  shall be the
consolidated net income of Abbott and its subsidiaries, prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, after
provision for any interest accrued with respect to such period on account of
deferred payments under this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, but before allowances
for any amount to be allocated to the Management Incentive Plan Fund, both net
of applicable income taxes, and after such adjustments for the following, as
may be determined by the Committee after consultation with Abbott s independent
auditors (all net of applicable income taxes):  

(a)              The exclusion of any charges for amortization or
goodwill arising out of acquisitions made for securities which, as a result of
adjustments made in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to
subsection 3.1, are treated as common share equivalents; and  

(b)             The exclusion of any interest on debt securities which
are convertible into common shares of Abbott and which shall have been
considered as common share equivalents in determining Abbott Common Shareholders 
Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1 hereof; and  

(c)              The deduction of any dividend requirement for
preferred shares which has not been considered as common share equivalents in
determining Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1 hereof.  

In the sole
discretion of the Committee there shall also be excluded in the calculation of  consolidated
net income  unusual gains and losses and the tax effects thereof, changes in
generally accepted accounting principles and the tax effects thereof and extraordinary
gains and losses.  

3.3             DETERMINATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN AMOUNT FOR
ANY YEAR. For each fiscal year that consolidated net income exceeds base
earnings, and as soon as practicable after ascertainment of that fact, the
Committee shall determine a tentative amount as the Management Incentive Plan
Amount for that year, which tentative amount shall not exceed the lesser of:  

3  

(a)              an amount which, when treated as an expense currently
deductible for income tax purposes in such year, would cause a 5 percent
reduction in such year s excess of consolidated net income over the base
earnings for such year; and  

(b)             an amount which, when treated as an expense currently
deductible for income tax purposes in such year, would cause a 1-1/2 percent
reduction in such year s consolidated net income; and  

(c)              an amount which equals 200 percent of the aggregate
base salaries of all active participants for such year.  

For purposes of the Plan  base salary  means the
amount of salary paid to each active participant by Abbott and its subsidiaries
for such year plus the includible portion (as described below) of any  Eligible
Restricted Stock Award,  as defined in Section 5-2 of the Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan and does not include bonuses, other
awards or any other compensation of any kind. The includible portion of a
participant s Eligible Restricted Stock Award shall be the portion of the
participant s Eligible Restricted Stock Award that is included in the
participant s final earnings under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension
Plan for such year. Following determination of such tentative Management
Incentive Plan Amount, the Committee shall report in writing the amount of such
tentative amount to the Board of Directors. At the meeting of the Board of
Directors coincident with or next following receipt by it of the Committee s
determination, the Board of Directors shall have the power to approve or
reduce, but not to increase, the tentative amount reported to it by the
Committee. The amount approved by the Board of Directors shall be the
Management Incentive Plan Amount for such year.  

3.4             THE MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND. The Management
Incentive Plan Fund at any time shall consist of an amount equal to the
aggregate of the Management Incentive Plan Amounts established pursuant to
subsection 3.3 of this Plan for all fiscal years during which this Plan shall
have been operative, plus the amounts established as Management Incentive Plan
Amounts for any prior fiscal year pursuant to a Predecessor Plan, reduced by an
amount equal to the aggregate of the amounts of awards which shall have been
allocated to participants in accordance with this Plan or a Predecessor Plan,
and awards, or any other compensation of any kind.  

SECTION 4   

ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND   

4.1             ANNUAL ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND. As
soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, part or all of the
amount then in the Management Incentive Plan Fund (including the Management
Incentive Plan Amount for such fiscal year) will be allocated by the Committee
among active participants in the Plan for such fiscal year, having due regard
for the purposes for which the Plan was established, in the following manner
and order:  

4  

(a)              First, if the Chairman of the Board of Abbott shall be
an active participant for such year, the members of the Committee, other than
the Chairman of the Board, shall determine the amount, if any, to be allocated
to the Chairman of the Board from such Fund for such year; and  

(b)             Next, all or a part of the balance of such Fund may be
allocated among the active participants (other than the Chairman of the Board)
for such year, in such amounts and proportions as the Committee shall determine
provided, however, that the amount allocated to any active participant for any
year shall not exceed 200 percent of such participant s base salary for that
year.  

4.2             COMMITTEE S DISCRETION IN ALLOCATIONS. In making any
allocations in accordance with subsection 4.1 for any year, the discretion of
the Committee shall be absolute, and no active participants for any year, by
reason of their designation as such, shall be entitled to any particular
amounts or any amount whatsoever.  

SECTION 5   

PAYMENT OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS   

5.1             TIME OF PAYMENT. For fiscal years beginning after December 31,
1988, a participant shall direct the payment or deferral of an allocation made
to him pursuant to subsection 4.1 at the time specified in subsection 5.2
(subject to such conditions relating to the right of the participant to receive
payment of such amount as established by the Committee) by one or more of the
following methods:  

(a)              current payment in cash to the participant, which
payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month
period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  

(b)             current payment of a portion in cash and deposited to
a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form
which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit B)
and the balance paid to the participant approximately equal to the participant s
aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes
(determined in accordance with subsection 6.7); provided that all payments or
contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this
subsection 5.1(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable
2   month period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation
  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  

(c)              deferral of payment until such time and in such manner
as determined in accordance with subsection 5.14.  

5.2             TIME OF ELECTION.  

(a)                                      A participant must make the election
described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate on
or before December 31   

5  

of the year prior to the fiscal year during which the incentive compensation is
earned under the Plan.  

(b)                                     Notwithstanding the timing
requirements described above, an individual who newly becomes eligible to
participate in the Plan by being designated as a participant under subsection
2.1 (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be
aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the
an initial deferral election described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the
Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately
following the date he or she first is designated as participant,  provided ,
that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services
performed after the date of such election. 
For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation
paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no
more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  

(c)                                      Any election described in subsection
5.1 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  

5.3             SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. The Committee shall establish
accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5.1(b) or
5.1(c) as follows.  

(a)              The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in
the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a
portion of his or her MIP award under subsection 5.1(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of
allocations deferred according to subsection 5.1(c) and any adjustments
made in accordance with subsection 5.4.  

(b)             The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax
Account  and an  After-Tax Account , in the name of each participant who has
elected to have a portion of his or her MIP award deposited in cash to a
Grantor Trust according to subsection 5.1(b). 
The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all allocations
contemplated by subsection 5.1(b), whether deposited to the participant s
Grantor Trust or made in cash to the participant, and any adjustments made in
accordance with subsection 5.5.  The
After-Tax Account shall consist of allocations deposited to the participant s
Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5.1(b) and any adjustments
made in accordance with subsection 5.6.  

5.4             ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. As of the end of each
fiscal year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the
Committee as follows:  

(a)                                      FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to
any distributions made to the participant during that year pursuant to
subsections 5.14 or 5.15;  

(b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal
to the allocation for that year that is deferred pursuant to subsection 5.1(c);
and  

6  

(c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount
equal to the interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  

5.5             ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS. As of the end of each
fiscal year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the
Committee as follows:  

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is
entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount
equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the
aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5.1(b) had instead
been deferred under subsection 5.1(c);  

(b)             NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any allocation
for that year that is paid to the participant (including the amount deposited
in the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5.1(b); and  

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the interest
earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  

5.6             ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS. As of the end of
each fiscal year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the
Committee as follows:  

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant
is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an
amount calculated as provided in subsection 5.19 which represents the
distribution for such year;  

(b)             NEXT, increased by an amount equal to the allocation
for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to
subsection 5.1(b); and  

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the interest
earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  

5.7             INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  

(a)              As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred
Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest )
at the following rate:  

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of
interest published by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable
successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the
last business day of each month of the fiscal year;  

7  

(ii)             plus two hundred twenty-five (225)
basis points.  

(b)       As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s
After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest provided above,
multiplied by the aggregate of the federal, state and local individual income
tax rates determined in accordance with subsection 6.7 (the  After-Tax Interest ).  

(c)       This Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable,
shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that
any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a
participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award
is made.  

5.8       GUARANTEED RATE PAYMENTS. In addition to any
allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with
subsection 5.1(b), Abbott shall also make a payment to a participant s Grantor
Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each year in which the Grantor Trust is
in effect.  The Guaranteed Rate Payment
shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s Net Interest Accrual (as
defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the
year and shall be paid within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of
the following fiscal year.  A participant s
Net Interest Accrual for the year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest
credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance
with subsection 5.7.  

5.9       GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS. Each participant s Grantor Trust
assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment
guidelines established by the Committee. 
Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the
Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year
following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the
instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of subsection 3(b) of
the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  

5.10             DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES. Subject to the
conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a
participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection 5.10, shall have the right
from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and,
successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts
from the participant s Deferred Account under the Plan and the Predecessor
Plans. Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as
a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate. Any such
designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such
beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary,
upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of
the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan or a
Predecessor Plan). The conditions and limitations relating to the designation
of beneficiaries are as follows:  

(a)               A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to
designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original
participant or the next preceding  

8  

primary beneficiary,
as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  

(b)               A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further
beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are
entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under
the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  

Any
beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this
subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the
person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the
Secretary of Abbott during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination
of a fiduciary s duties. If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary
beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies
without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary
designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee,
in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to
time to either:  

(iii)              any one or more or all of the next
of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased
beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee
determines; or  

(iv)              the legal representative of the
estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  

5.11             STATUS OF BENEFICIARIES. Following a participant s
death, the participant s beneficiary or beneficiaries will be considered and
treated as an inactive participant for all purposes of this Plan.  

5.12             NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT. Amounts
payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any
way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or
involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions
of this subsection shall not be construed as restricting in any way a
designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection
5.10. When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal
disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to
be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that
payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal
representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary
for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct
the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary
in any manner that the Committee determines.  

5.13             PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS. Any amount
allocated to a participant in the Plan and any interest credited thereto will
be  

9  

paid by the employer (or such employer s
successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for
which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall
have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount
allocated under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the
respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary
paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  

5.14             MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. Subject to
subsection 5.15, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account
in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years,
or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under subsection
5.1(c).  Payment of a participant s
Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of
the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  

5.15             PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN
CONTROL.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of the Plan or the provisions of any award made under the Plan, if a
participant incurs a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries
for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in
Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change
in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under
the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5.1(c), the aggregate
unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such
participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such
termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose
allocations under the Plan are made pursuant to subsection 5.1(b), (i) the
aggregate of the participant s unpaid allocation under subsection 5.1(b) (if
any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro
rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under subsection 5.8
attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of
termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum
within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  

5.16             CHANGE IN CONTROL. A  Change in Control  shall be
deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  

(a)               the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the
securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from
Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power
of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such
a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of
paragraph (c) below; or  

(b)               the date the following individuals cease for any
reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving:
individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any
new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election  

10  

contest, including
but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of
directors of Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or
nomination for election by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by
a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who
either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or
nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  

(c)               the date on which there is consummated a merger or
consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any
other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or
consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise
the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority
of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott
or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the
securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in
which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of
securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by
such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates)
representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then
outstanding securities; or  

(d)               the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of
complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an
agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of
Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by Abbott of all or
substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined
voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of
Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary
holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary
of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Abbott
immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or
series of transactions continue to have    substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially
all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of
transactions.  

For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth
in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial
Owner  shall have the  

11  

meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange
Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to
time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of
the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof,
except that such term shall not include (i) Abbott or any of its
subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an
underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such
securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the
shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same proportions as their ownership
of stock of Abbott.  

5.17             POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL. A  Potential Change in
Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a
Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence
of a Change in Control):  

(a)               Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of
which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a
Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to
exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  

(b)               Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth
in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces
an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which
would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in
Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the
withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors
that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  

(c)               Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then
outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially
owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its
Affiliates).  

(d)               The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the
effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control
exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph
(d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors
that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence
of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  

5.18             PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT. The provisions of
subsections 5.15, 5.16, 5.17 and this subsection 5.18 may not be amended or
deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during
the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period
beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

12  

5.19             ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST
DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed
from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is
entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the
reduction determined in accordance with subsection 5.5(a), by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax
Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is
the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  

SECTION 6   

MISCELLANEOUS   

6.1       RULES. The Committee may establish such rules and
regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and
efficient administration of the Plan.  

6.2       MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE. A majority of the
members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by
meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or
document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign. The
Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial
functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such
person or persons as the Committee may select. Except as otherwise expressly
provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by
Abbott. Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be
filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or
delivered in writing to the Secretary of Abbott.  

6.3       RELIANCE UPON ADVICE. The Board of Directors and the
Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any
Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants,
and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice. No
member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act
or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be
done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of
any other member.  

6.4       TAXES. Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or
desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax,
attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan after giving the
person entitled to receive such amount notice as far in advance as practicable,
and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount
necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  

6.5       RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS. Employment rights of
participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected
by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan.
Nothing contained in the Plan shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to
segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment
of any amounts which may have been deferred. The Deferred Account, Pre-Tax Account
and After-Tax Account with respect to any  

13  

participant established
pursuant to subsection 5.2 are for the convenience of the administration of the
Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or
should be implied. Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at
the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan. Any
decision made by the Board of Directors or the Committee, which is within the sole
and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding upon the
other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  

6.6       TAX GROSS UP. In addition to the allocations provided
under subsection 4.1, each participant who has established a Grantor Trust (or,
if the participant is deceased, the beneficiary designated under the
participant s Grantor Trust) shall be entitled to a Tax Gross Up payment for
each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The  Tax Gross Up  shall equal: (a) the
amount necessary to compensate the participant (or beneficiary) for the net
increase in the participant s (or beneficiary s) federal, state and local
income taxes as a result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of the
income of the participant s Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate Payment for
that year; plus (b) an amount necessary to compensate the participant (or
beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a
result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this subsection 6.6. Payment of the Tax Gross Up shall be made by
the employers (in such proportions as Abbott shall designate) directly from
their general corporate assets, no later than the end of the calendar year in
which the participant remits the related taxes.  

6.7       INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS. For purposes of Sections 5 and
6, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest
marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year
in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local
tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income
tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the
date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a
benefit for any net capital losses.  

6.8       SECTION 409A. 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the
provisions of Code Section 409A. 
The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent
with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to
satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to
comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by
Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding
anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a
participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until
the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury
Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated
taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable
guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that
would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of
termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the
expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to
the rate specified in subsection 5.7 (to the extent that such interest is not
already provided to the participant under subsection 5.6), from the respective
dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual
date of payment.  In  

14  

addition, for purposes of the Plan, each
amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate
identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  

SECTION 7   

AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF 
CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS   

7.1       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. The Plan will be effective
from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors. During the
fifth year after the Plan s effective date and during every fifth year
thereafter, the Committee may recommend to the Board of Directors whether the
Plan should be amended or terminated. The Board of Directors reserves the right
to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time,
except that no such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any
fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to
the date of such amendment or termination, or change the terms and conditions
of payment of any allocation theretofore made without the consent of the
participant concerned.  

7.2        CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time or payment or the time
of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made
shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election
requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject
thereto.  

15  

Exhibit A   

1986   

   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   

   MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN   

[The 1986 Abbott Laboratories
Management Incentive Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott
Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 on Form
10-Q.]  

Exhibit B   

IRREVOCABLE
GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   

THIS
AGREEMENT, made this          day of                  ,
20    , by and between                                     
of                    ,
Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago,
Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and
maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the
1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time;  

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  

ARTICLE I   

INTRODUCTION   

I-1                                     NAME.
This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to
as the                      
20    Grantor Trust . 

I-2                                     THE
TRUST FUND. The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the
trustee under this agreement. 

I-3                                     STATUS
OF THE TRUST. The trust shall be irrevocable. The trust is intended to
constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code,
as amended, and shall be construed accordingly. 

I-4                                     THE
ADMINISTRATOR. Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator 
of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under
this agreement as described below. Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without
further inquiry or verification. 

I-5                                     ACCEPTANCE.
The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees
to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees
to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in
trust in accordance with this agreement. 

ARTICLE II   

DISTRIBUTION
OF THE TRUST FUND   

II-1                                 SEPARATE
ACCOUNTS. The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the
trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.  Funds delivered to the
trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by
the administrator. As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall
charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that
year; and credit each account with its share of income and realized gains and
charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the
year. The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the
trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered
to it under the trust as one trust fund. 

II-2                                 DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH. The trustee shall
distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to
the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the
administrator shall direct. 

II-3                                 DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH. Principal and
accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed
from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of
employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement
date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to
distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for
that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.
The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.
Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited
to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual
installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the
following methods: 

(a)                                     The amount of each
installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the
deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement
date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be
distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account
for the preceding year  (excluding the
year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs). 

(b)                                    The amount of each
installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred
account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the
total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the
number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred
account. 

(c)                                     Each installment
(after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount
comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus
interest thereon at the rate determined under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories
Management Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings
credited to the deferred account for the preceding year. 

(i)                                        the
foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this
paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held
in the trust fund. The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the
administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s
settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is
established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select
both the period (which may not be less than  

ten years from
the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred)
over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of
computing the amount of each installment. In the absence of such a written
direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period
of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the
method described in subparagraph (a) next above. Installment distributions
under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year,
beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s
settlement date occurs. The administrator shall inform the trustee of the
amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the
trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from
the administrator.  

II-4.                              DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH. The grantor, from time to time
may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively
and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the
trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be
distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a
trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in
installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death. If the
grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall
be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse
beneficiary s estate. If the grantor directs an installment method of
distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be
distributed in a lump sum to such trust. Despite the foregoing, if (i) the
beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4
other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the
year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may
elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee. Each
designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall
be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the
grantor s lifetime. If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution,
the distribution shall be made in a lump sum. If the grantor fails to designate
a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall
distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or
administrator of the grantor s estate. 

II-5                                 FACILITY
OF PAYMENT. When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal
disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to
be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may  

make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a
relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit. Any distribution
made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete
discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  

II-6                                 PERPETUITIES.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next
preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor
and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the
trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the
beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder. 

ARTICLE III   

   MANAGEMENT OF
THE TRUST FUND   

III-1.                          GENERAL
POWERS. The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following
powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this
agreement or by law: 

(a)                                     Subject
to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to
sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all
assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such
terms and conditions as the trustee decides. 

(b)                                    To
retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest
and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between
principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its
agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment
fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or
retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting
risk or lack of diversification or marketability. 

(c)                                     To
deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank
acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in
savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of
interest in any such depositary. 

(d)                                    To
invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any
common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the
trustee solely for the investment of trust funds. 

(e)                                     To
borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time
to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to
mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security. 

(f)                                       To
retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for
interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final
adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate
release is obtained. 

(g)                                    To
begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the
administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or
required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction. 

(h)                                    To
compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands. 

(i)                                        To
give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose
(alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations,
foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial
structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or
conversion rights. 

(j)                                        To
hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or
in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship. 

(k)                                     To
divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly
in kind. 

(l)                                        To
pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of
any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to
require before making any payment such release or other document from any
lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the
trustee consider necessary for its protection. 

(m)                                  To
deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate
or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor
or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though  

the trustee,
individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any
loss that may result.  

(n)                                    To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to
act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or
all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act,
and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or
the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers,
duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any
action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument. 

(o)                                    To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as
custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have
such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the
trustee. 

(p)                                    To
employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them
such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be
protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so
employed without court action. 

(q)                                    To
perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate
for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund. 

III-2.                          PRINCIPAL
AND INCOME. Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as
provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to
the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include
all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal
and accumulated income. 

III-3.                          STATEMENTS.
The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually
to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to
distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements)
setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts,
disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the
reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end
of such period. 

III-4.                          COMPENSATION
AND EXPENSES. All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the
administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any
compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons  

employed by
the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and
reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  

ARTICLE IV   

   GENERAL
PROVISIONS   

IV-1.                          INTERESTS
NOT TRANSFERABLE. The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to
distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and
may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned
or encumbered. 

IV-2.                          DISAGREEMENT
AS TO ACTS. If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any
act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right
to a settlement of its account by any proper court. 

IV-3.                          TRUSTEE S
OBLIGATIONS. No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except
as set forth in this agreement. The trustee is not obliged to determine whether
funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust,
or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from
the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to
whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be
liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or
knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this
agreement. 

IV-4.                          GOOD FAITH
ACTIONS. The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions
in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons. No one shall be obliged to
see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.
The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement
will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee. 

IV-5.                          WAIVER OF
NOTICE. Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person
entitled to such notice. 

IV-6.                          CONTROLLING
LAW. The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and
validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the
management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby
created. 

IV-7.                          SUCCESSORS.
This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions
hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the
trustee and its successors. 

ARTICLE V   

   CHANGES IN
TRUSTEE   

V-1.                              RESIGNATION
OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE. The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30)
days  advance written notice to the administrator  

and the
grantor. The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the
trustee and the grantor.  

V-2.                              APPOINTMENT
OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE. The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of
trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and
shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living,
otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under
this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended). 

V-3.                              DUTIES
OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE. A trustee that
resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the
successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date
of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the
trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any
instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all
acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee. Each
successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if
originally named trustee. No successor trustee shall be personally liable for
any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the
administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the
property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for
so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor
trustee. 

ARTICLE VI   

   AMENDMENT AND
TERMINATION   

VI-1.                          AMENDMENT.
With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to
time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the
beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as
follows: 

(a)                                     The
duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without
its consent. 

(b)                                    This
trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable. 

VI-2.                       TERMINATION. This trust shall not
terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities
imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the
beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been
distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II. 

*      *      *  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the
trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above
written.  

Grantor  

The Northern Trust Company as Trustee  

By  

Its  

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 6
 a2188623zex-10_5.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.5

Exhibit 10.5   

Amended and
Restated effective January 1, 2008  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   

SECTION 1.  

  PURPOSE  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 
FEE PLAN - referred to below as the  Plan  - has been established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES
- - referred to below as the  Company  - to attract and retain as members of its
Board of Directors persons who are not full-time employees of the Company or
any of its subsidiaries but whose business experience and judgment are a
valuable asset to the Company and its subsidiaries.  

SECTION 2. 
DIRECTORS COVERED  

As used in the Plan, the term  Director 
means any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Company in
April, 1962 or at any time thereafter, and is not a full-time employee of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.  

SECTION 3.   FEES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS  

3.1               Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred monthly
fee of Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000.00) for each calendar month or portion
thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected a Director) that he
holds such office with the Company.  

3.2               A Director who serves as Chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee
of One Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($1,600.00) for each calendar month or
portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such
position) that he holds such position.  

3.3               Audit Committee Fees  

(a)                                      A Director who serves as Chairman of
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred
monthly fee of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) for each calendar
month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to
such position) that he holds such position.  

(b)                                     Each Director who serves on the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman of the Audit
Committee) shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which
he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  

3.4               A Director who serves as Chairman of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee
of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.  

3.5               A Director who serves as Chairman of the Nominations
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee
of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.  

3.6               A Director who serves as Chairman of any other
Committee created by this Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred
monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or
portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such
position) that he holds such position.  

3.7               A Director s Deferred Fee Account shall be credited
with interest annually. During the calendar years 1968 and prior, the rate of
interest credited to deferred fees shall be four (4) percent per annum.
During the calendar years 1969 through 1992, the rate of interest credited to
deferred fees shall be the average of the prime rates being charged by the two
largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month
coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited.
During the calendar years 1993 through 2007, the rate of interest credited to
deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the prime rates being
charged by the two largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the
end of the month coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said
interest is so credited; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis
points.  For the calendar year 2008 and
subsequent years, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal
to: (a) the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by The Wall
Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on
the first business day of January and the last business day of each month
of the fiscal year; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis
points.  For purposes of this provision,
the term  deferred fees  shall include  deferred monthly fees,  and  deferred
meeting fees,  and shall also include any such interest credited thereon.  

3.8               For purposes of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and
3.6, the automatic deferral of the fees specified therein shall be subject to a
Director s election to receive such fees currently pursuant to Section 4.1
or Section 9.1 of the Plan.  

SECTION 4. 
PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS  FEES  

4.1               Any Director may, by written notice filed with the
Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year,
elect to receive current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and
meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in
which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall not be deferred but
shall be paid quarterly as earned and no interest shall be credited
thereon.  Such election shall be
irrevocable as of December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the
fees will be earned.  Notwithstanding the
timing requirements described above, an individual who is newly elected as a
Director may make the election described above by filing it with the Secretary
of the Company   

2  

within
the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first
becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan (and all plans that
would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-1(c)(2)(i)),  provided , that the compensation subject to such
election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election
and  provided    further  ,  that such election shall become irrevocable on the
thirtieth day following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible to
participate in the Plan.  In no event
shall the fees subject to an election under this Section 4.1 be paid later
than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period , as such term is defined
in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A). 
Any Director who has previously provided notice pursuant to this Section 4.1
may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31
in a calendar year, elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the monthly
and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the year in
which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall be paid to him in
accordance with Section 4.2 below.  

4.2               A Director s deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan
shall commence to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following
the earlier of his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not
then serving as a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if
he serves as a Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65).  

4.3               A Director s deferred fees that have commenced to be
payable pursuant to Section 4.2 shall be payable in annual installments in
the order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e. the deferred fees and earnings
thereon for the earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date
provided for in Section 4.2, the deferred fees for the next earliest year
of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the
first installment, etc.).  

4.4               A Director s deferred fees shall continue to be paid
until all deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall
have been paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary).  

4.5               If a Director incurs a termination of service as a
Director within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in
Control (as defined below), the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s
deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such
Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such
termination of service;  provided ,  however , that if such Change in
Control does not constitute a  change in control event  (as defined in Treasury
Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5)), then the aggregate unpaid balance of such
Director s deferred fees shall be paid in accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3.  

Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, if a Director has made the alternative election set forth in Section 9.1,
and if such Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within five (5) years
following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance
of such Director s fees deposited to the Director s Grantor Trust (as defined
below) plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such
Director from the Director s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30)
days following the date of such termination of service.  

4.6               A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred
on the earliest of the following dates:  

3  

(i)                                         the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more
of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities,
excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a
transaction described in clause (a) of paragraph (iii) below; or  

(ii)                                      the date the following individuals
cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then
serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors
and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office
is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but
not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of
the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or
nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved or
recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still
in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment,
election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended;
or  

(iii)                                   the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other
than (a) a merger or consolidation (I) immediately following which
the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto
constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the
entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity
surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate
parent thereof and (II) which results in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in
combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding
securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of
the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the
Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately
after such merger or consolidation, or (b) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar
transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities
Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the   

4  

Company or its
Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the
Company s then outstanding securities; or  

(iv)                                  the date the shareholders of the
Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or
there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of
all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or
disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets
to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of which are owned by shareholders of the Company, in combination
with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company
immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such
transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate
ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the
Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  

For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth
in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial
Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange
Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of
the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof,
except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an
underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities,
or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders
of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of
stock of the Company.  

4.7               A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any
period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) or
(iv), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall
cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  

5  

(i)                                         The Company enters into an
agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change
in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this
paragraph (i) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other
termination of all such agreements.  

(ii)                                      Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (ii) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination
by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions
would be consummated.  

(iii)                                   Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or
more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or
the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities (not
including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were
acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates).  

(iv)                                  The Board of Directors adopts a
resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential
Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described
in this paragraph (iv) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the
Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing
for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer
exist.  

4.8               The provisions of Sections 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and this Section 4.8
may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this
Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during
the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date
five (5) years following such Change in Control.  

SECTION 5. 
DIRECTORS  RETIREMENT BENEFIT  

5.1               Effective April 30, 1998, each of the persons
serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 shall be credited with a
retirement benefit of $4,167 a month for 120 months of continuous service and
no additional retirement benefits shall accrue under the Plan. Each of the persons
serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 may elect: (a) to have his
or her retirement benefit under the Plan treated as provided in Section 5.2
of the Plan; or (b) to have the present value of that retirement benefit
credited to an unfunded phantom stock account and converted into phantom stock
units based on the closing price of the Company s common stock on April 30,
1998, with those phantom stock units then being credited with the same cash and
stock dividends,   

6  

stock
splits and other distributions and adjustments as are paid on the Company s
common stock. The phantom stock units shall be payable to the Director in
annual payments commencing on the first day of the calendar month next
following the earlier of the Director s death or termination of service as a
Director, in an amount determined by the closing price of the Company s common
stock on the first business day preceding the payment date. Unless the
retirement benefit is terminated, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid
on the anniversary of the day on which the first such retirement benefit
payment was made, until the benefit has been paid for ten years, or until the
death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die
with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due
hereunder, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid to the surviving spouse
of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or until the
death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.  

5.2               Any person serving as a Director on December 12,
1997 who elects to have his or her retirement benefit paid pursuant to this Section 5.2
shall receive a monthly benefit equal to $4,167. Payment of the monthly benefit
shall commence on the first day of the calendar month next following the
earlier of the Director s death or termination of service as a Director. Unless
the retirement benefit is terminated, the monthly benefit shall continue to be
paid on the first day of each calendar month thereafter, until the benefit has
been paid for one hundred and twenty (120) months, or until the death of the
Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die with such
benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due hereunder, the
monthly benefit shall continue to the surviving spouse of such Director until
all payments due hereunder have been made or until the death of the surviving
spouse, if earlier.  

5.3               Directors who retired on or before December 12, 1997
will receive the form and amount of retirement benefit payable under the terms
of the Plan in effect at the time of their retirement.  

5.4               Each Director who is granted a retirement benefit
hereunder shall make him or herself available for such consultation with the
Board of Directors or any committee or member thereof, as may be reasonably
requested from time to time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors,
following such Director s termination of service as a Director. The Company
shall reimburse each such Director for all reasonable travel, lodging and
subsistence expenses incurred by the Director at the request of the Company in
rendering such consultation. The Company may terminate the retirement benefit
if the Director should fail to render such consultation, unless prevented by
disability or other reason beyond the Director s control.  

5.5               It is recognized that during a Director s period of
service as a Director and as a consultant hereunder, a Director will acquire
knowledge of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, the disclosure of
which would be contrary to the best interests of the Company. Accordingly, the
Company may terminate the retirement benefit if, without the express consent of
the Company, the Director accepts election to the Board of Directors of,
acquires a partnership or proprietary interest in, or renders services as an
employee or consultant to, any business entity which is engaged in substantial
competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  

5.6               An individual will be considered a Director s  surviving
spouse  for purposes of Section 5 only if the Director and such individual
were married in a religious or civil ceremony   

7  

recognized
under the laws of the state where the marriage was contracted and the marriage
remained legally effective at the date of the Director s death.  

SECTION 6. 
CONVERSION TO COMMON STOCK UNITS  

6.1               Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by
written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, irrevocably elect to
have all or any portion of deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid,
transferred from the Director s Deferred Fee Account to a Stock Account
established under this Section 6. Any election as to a portion of such
fees shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be
applied to all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to
all deferred fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the
Director. A Director may make no more than one notional investment election
under this Section 6.l in any calendar year. All such elections may apply
only to deferred fees for which an election has not previously been made and
shall be irrevocable.  

6.2               Any Director may, by written notice filed with the
Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees
earned subsequent to the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account
established under this Section 6. Fees covered by such election shall be
credited to such account at the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which,
such fees are earned. Such election may be revoked or modified by such
Director, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, as to
deferred fees to be earned in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year
such notice is filed, but shall be irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior
to such year.  

6.3               Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 6.1
shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so
credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the date the
notice of election under Section 6 is received by the Company (or the next
business day, if there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. Deferred fees credited to a Stock
Account under Section 6.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by
dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of
the Company as of the last business day of the calendar quarter for which the
credit is made, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting
System.  

6.4               Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with (or
adjusted for) the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other
distributions and adjustments as are received by or applicable to one common
share of the Company. All cash dividends and other cash distributions credited
to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional Common Stock Units by
dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing price of common
shares of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or distribution, as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  

6.5               The value of the Common Stock Units credited each
Director shall be paid the Director in cash on the dates specified in Section 4.3
(or, if applicable, Section 4.5). The amount of each payment shall be
determined by multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified
in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5) by the closing price
of common   

8  

shares
of the Company on the day prior to the payment date (or the next preceding
business day if there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  

SECTION 7. 
MISCELLANEOUS  

7.1               Each Director or former Director entitled to payment
of deferred fees hereunder, from time to time may name any person or persons
(who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director s
fees earned by him and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death
before he receives any or all of such deferred Director s fees.  Each designation will revoke all prior
designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be in form
prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the
Director or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during
his lifetime. If a deceased Director or former Director shall have failed to
name a beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by
a deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all
the Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees, the Company, in
its discretion, may direct payment of the remaining installments required by Section 4.3
to either:  

(a)                                      any one or more or all of the next
of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and
in such proportions as the Company determines; or  

(b)                                     the legal representative or
representatives of the estate of the last to die of the Director or former
Director and his last surviving beneficiary.  

The person or persons to whom any deceased
Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees are payable under this
Section will be referred to as his  beneficiary.   

7.2               Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of
any person shall not be construed to confer any right on the part of such
person to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company,
or to be reelected to the Board of Directors.  

7.3               Payment of deferred Directors  fees will be made only
to the person entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and
deferred Directors  fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other
obligations of persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or
involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. When a person entitled to a
payment under the Plan is under legal disability or, in the Company s opinion,
is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs,
the Company may direct that payment be made to such person s legal
representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for his benefit. Any
payment made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be in complete
discharge of the Company s obligation to make such payment under the Plan.  

7.4               Any action required or permitted to be taken by the
Company under the terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority
of the members of the Board of Directors then in office.  

9  

7.5               Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary,
any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1,
2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to
a Director who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts )
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as
in effect on December 31, 2004. 
Amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement
or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly
provided for in the amendment.  The terms
and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A
attached hereto.  

7.6               To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan
comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted
in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Plan to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and
effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to
the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, for all purposes of this Plan, a Director shall not be deemed to
have had a termination of service as a Director until the Director has incurred
a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and,
to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under
Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of
the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the
six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the
first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest
thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Section 9-8 (to the
extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under
subsection 9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would
otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each
amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate
identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  

SECTION 8. 
AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE  

While the Company expects to continue the
Plan, it must necessarily reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend
or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that any amendment or
discontinuance of the Plan shall be prospective in operation only, and shall
not affect the payment of any deferred Directors  fees theretofore earned by
any Director, or the conditions under which any such fees are to be paid or
forfeited under the Plan. Any discontinuance of the Plan by the Company shall
comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  

SECTION 9. 
ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF FEES  

9.1               By written notice filed with the Secretary of the
Company prior to each calendar year beginning after December 31, 1988, a
Director may elect to receive all or a portion of his fees earned in the
following calendar year in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.  An election under this Section 9.1 shall
become irrevocable as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the
year in which such monthly and meeting fees will be earned (or, in the case of
a new Director, on the 30  th   day following
the Director s first participation in the Plan and all plans that   

10  

would
be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i),
 provided , that the compensation subject to such election relates solely
to services performed after the date of such election).  

9.2               If payment of a Director s fees is made pursuant to Section 9.1,
such fees shall not be deferred and a portion of such fees shall be paid
currently in cash for the Director directly to a  Grantor Trust  established by
the Director, provided such trust is in a form which the Company determines to
be substantially similar to the trust attached to this plan as Exhibit 
and the balance of the fees shall be paid currently in cash directly to the
Director, provided that the payment made directly to the Director shall equal
the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to
the fees paid pursuant to this Section 9.2 (determined in accordance with Section 9.14).  In no event shall such fees be paid to the
Grantor Trust or directly to the Director later than the last day of the  applicable
2   month period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  

9.3               The Company will establish and maintain four separate
accounts in the name of each Director who has made an election under Section 9.1
as follows: a  Pre-Tax Fee Account , an  After-Tax Fee Account , a  Pre-Tax
Stock Account  and an  After-Tax Stock Account  (collectively, the  Accounts ).  

(a)                                      The Pre-Tax Fee Account shall
reflect any fees paid in cash to a Director (including amounts deposited to a
Director s Grantor Trust) pursuant to Section 9.2, and interest to be
credited to a Director pursuant to Section 9.8.  The After-Tax Fee Account shall also reflect
such amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  

(b)                                     The Pre-Tax Stock Account shall
reflect the total amount of fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 6
and any adjustments made pursuant to that Section and Section 9.9.
The After-Tax Stock Account shall also reflect such amounts but shall be
maintained on an after-tax basis.  

(c)                                      The Accounts established pursuant to
this Section 9.3 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan
and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should
be implied.  

9.4       As of the end of each calendar year,
the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as follows:  

(a)       FIRST, charge, in any year in which
the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, an amount equal to the distribution from the fee account maintained
thereunder that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts
paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section   

(b)       NEXT, credit an amount equal to any
fees for that year, not converted to Common Stock Units, that are paid to the
Director (including the amount deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust)
according to Section 9.2; and  

11  

(c)   FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the
Interest earned for that year according to Section 9.8.  

9.5           As
of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s
After-Tax Fee Account as follows:  

(a)                                   FIRST, charge, in any year in which
the Director is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would
have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 9.2
had instead been deferred under Section 3, multiplied by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Fee
Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is
the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as of that same date;  

(b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the
fees not converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the
Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust according to Section 9.2;
and  

(c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to
the After-Tax Interest earned for that year according to Section 9.8  

9.6   As of the end of each calendar year, the
Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as follows:  

(a)   FIRST, charge, in any year in which the
Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust,
an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the Director
if the aggregate amount of fees paid according to Section 9.2 had instead
been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section   

(b)   NEXT,
credit an amount equal to any fees for that year that are converted to Common
Stock Units and paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the
Director s Grantor Trust to the stock account maintained thereunder) according
to Section 9.2; and  

(c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to
the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 9.9.  

9.7               As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall
adjust each Director s After-Tax Stock Account as follows:  

(a)               FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is
entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount
equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to
the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 9.2 had
instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made
under Section 6, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of
which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Stock Account as of the end of
the prior fiscal year  

12  

and
the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account
as of that same date;  

(b)               NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees converted to
Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the
Director s Grantor Trust and allocated to the stock account maintained
thereunder according to Section 9.2; and  

(c)               FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value
Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 9.9.  

9.8  

(a)               As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s
Pre-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the
following rate:  

(i)                the average of the  prime rate  of interest published
by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation
service on the first business day of January and the last business day of
each month of the fiscal year;  

(ii)               plus two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  

(b)               As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s
After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth
above, multiplied by the aggregate of the federal, state and local individual
income tax rates determined in accordance with subsection 9.14 (the  After-Tax
Interest ).  

9.9               As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s
Pre-Tax Stock Account and After-Tax Stock Account shall be adjusted as provided
in Section 6.4, to the extent applicable, and shall also be adjusted to
reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of the Company s
common stock determined in accordance with Section 6.5, except that (i) any
reference to the payment date in such Section shall mean December 31
of the applicable calendar year for purposes of this Section, and (ii) adjustments
to the After-Tax Stock Account shall be made on an after-tax basis.  Such adjustments shall be referred to as  Book
Value Adjustments.   

9.10             In addition to any fees paid to a Director s Grantor
Trust under Section 9.2 during the year, the Company shall also make a
payment to a Director s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each
year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect. 
The Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the
Director s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the
Director s deferred account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust for
the year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1
of the following calendar year.  A
Director s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax
Interest credited to the Director s After-Tax Fee Account for that year in
accordance with Section 9.8(b).  

9.11             In addition to the fees paid under Section 9.2
during the year and the Guaranteed Rate Payment described above, the Company
shall also make a payment to a Director s Grantor  

13  

Trust (a  Guaranteed Principal Payment ) for
each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect, to be credited to the stock
account maintained thereunder.  The  Guaranteed
Principal Payment  shall equal the excess, if any, of 75 percent of the balance
of the Director s After-Tax Stock Account on December 31 over the balance
in the stock account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that
same date. For the calendar year in which the last installment distribution is
made from the Director s Grantor Trust (meaning, the year that is X years
following the year of the event triggering the payments, where X is the same
number of years served by the Director), the payment made under this Section 9.11
shall equal the excess, if any, of 100 percent of the balance of the Director s
After-Tax Stock Account over the balance in the stock account maintained under
the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date.  Any Guaranteed Principal Payment required
under this Section 9.11 shall be made within the thirty (30) days
beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  

9.12             Each Director s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested
solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the
Committee.  Such investment guidelines,
once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change
shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is
made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent
with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust
attached hereto as Exhibit B.  

9.13             In addition to the fees paid under Section 9.2
and the payments provided by Section 9.10 and 9.11, each Director (or, if
the Director is deceased, the beneficiary designated under the Director s
Grantor Trust) shall be entitled to a Tax Gross Up payment for each year in
which the Grantor Trust is in effect. The  Tax Gross Up  shall equal: (a) the
amount necessary to compensate the Director (or beneficiary) for the net
increase in his or her federal, state and local income taxes as a result of the
inclusion in the Director s (or beneficiary s) taxable income of the income of
his or her Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate and Guaranteed Principal
Payments for that year; plus (b) an amount necessary to compensate the
Director (or beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above
as a result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this Section 9.13.  Any
Tax Gross-Up payments shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year
in which the Director remits the related taxes.  

9.14             For purposes of Section 9, a Director s federal
income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal
individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation
under this Section is to be made and state and local tax rates shall be
deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in
the state and locality of the Director s residence on the date such a
calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any
net capital losses. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is
not a citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on
the Director s benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor
Trust without a benefit for any net capital losses.  

9.15            If a portion of a Director s fees have been
paid to a Grantor Trust pursuant to Section 9.2, then those fees and
earnings thereon shall be paid to him or her from the Grantor Trust in the
order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the earliest year of
service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor
Trust(s), the fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be
paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first 

14  

installment, etc.)  The
distribution of a Director s fees shall continue until all fees to which the
Director is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid in accordance
with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s).  

15  

Exhibit A  

ABBOTT
LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   

[Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as amended, as
filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K
dated February 17, 2006.]  

Exhibit B  

IRREVOCABLE
GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   

THIS RESTATED
AGREEMENT, made this
             day of
                            ,
2008, by and between
                          
of                       ,                 (the
 grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as
trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the
grantor has established a trust known as the               
Grantor Trust , dated                              ,
to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories
Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as it may be amended from time to time; and  

WHEREAS, the
grantor, with the consent of the administrator of the referenced trust, desires
to amend the agreement creating the referenced trust ( trust agreement ) in
many respects and believes the trust agreement, as so amended, would be easier
to understand if restated.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, the grantor amends the trust agreement by substituting for it and
all prior amendments the following provisions which set forth all of the terms
and conditions relating to the administration, investment and distribution of
the trust property after this date:  

ARTICLE I 
Introduction   

I-1.    Name . 
This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be
referred to as the                              
Grantor Trust.   

I-2.   The Trust Fund .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all
property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  

I-3.  Status
of the Trust .  The trust shall be
irrevocable.  The trust is intended to
constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code,
as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  

I-4.  The
Administrator .  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott )
shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain
powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator.  The trustee may rely on
the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  

I-5.  Acceptance .  The trustee accepts the duties and
obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it
by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such   

funds (and any
proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this
agreement.  

ARTICLE II 
Distribution of the Trust Fund   

II-1.   Separate Accounts .  The administrator shall maintain two separate
accounts under the trust, a  deferred account  and a  stock account.  Funds
delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee
as directed by the administrator.  As of
the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with
all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each
account with its share of income and realized gains and charge each account
with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall be required to make
separate investments of the trust fund for the accounts, and may not administer
and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  

II-2.   Distributions Prior to the Grantor s Death .  Principal and accumulated income shall not be
distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s termination of service as a
Director of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year
the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion
of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income
to be accumulated in the trust.  The
administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the
trust fund to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments,
commencing on the first day of the month next following the later of the
grantor s settlement date or the date the grantor attains age 65 years.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of
the number of installment distributions and the amount of each installment
distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully
protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  

II-3.   Distributions After the Grantor s Death .  The grantor, from time to time may name any
person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be
natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all
accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or,
if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s
spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor,
upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor
directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any
amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed
in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s
estate.  If the grantor directs an
installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is
the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse
shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the
beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3
other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the
year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may
elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior
designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the
grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of
distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a
beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall   

2  

distribute the
balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the
grantor s estate.  

II-4.   Facility of Payment .  When a person entitled to a distribution
hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative,
or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the
preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for
such distribution hereunder.  

II-5.   Perpetuities .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the
last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of
this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance
in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  

ARTICLE III 
Management of the Trust Fund   

III-1.   General Powers .  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust
fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those
provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  

(a)              Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next
below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to
purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way,
for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee
decides. 

(b)             To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee
considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund,
without distinction between principal and income, in common stock of Abbott
Laboratories, or in obligations of the United States Government and its
agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment
fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or
retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting
risk or lack of diversification or marketability. 

(c)              To deposit cash in any depositary (including
the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for
interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of
deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary. 

(d)              To invest, subject to the limitations of
subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds
maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust
funds. 

(e)              To borrow from anyone, with the
administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee
considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or
part of the trust fund as security. 

3  

(f)               To retain any funds or property subject to
any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or
delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction
or until an appropriate release is obtained. 

(g)              To begin, maintain or defend any litigation
necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the
trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the
trustee s satisfaction. 

(h)              To compromise, contest, settle or abandon
claims or demands. 

(i)               To give proxies to vote stocks and other
voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting
trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations,
or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise
or sell stock subscription or conversion rights. 

(j)               To hold securities or other property in the
name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without
disclosing the trust relationship. 

(k)              To divide or distribute the trust fund in
undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind. 

(l)               To pay any tax imposed on or with respect
to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to
its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such
release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity
from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its Protection. 

(m)             To deal without restriction with the legal
representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal
representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in
which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually,
shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may
result. 

(n)              To appoint or remove by written instrument
any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever
located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including
property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except
as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall
have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of
the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken
under this or the appointing instrument. 

(o)              To appoint or remove by written instrument
any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and
each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as
are delegated to it by the trustee. 

(p)              To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or
other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers
desirable, and the trustee shall be  

4  

protected in
acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without
court action.  

(q)              To perform any and all other acts which in
the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment
and distribution of the trust fund. 

III-2.   Principal and Income .  Any income earned on the trust fund, which is
not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from
time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include
all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal
and accumulated income.  

III-3.   Statements .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly
to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to
each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a
statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set
forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected
by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the
value thereof at the end of such period.  

III-4.   Compensation and Expenses .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses
incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee,
any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed
by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment
and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  

5  

ARTICLE IV 
General Provisions   

IV-1.   Interests Not Transferable .  The interests of the grantor or other persons
entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other
obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred,
alienated, assigned or encumbered.  

IV-2.    Disagreement as to Acts .  If there is a disagreement between the
trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the
trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper
court.  

IV-3.   Trustee s Obligations .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed
on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine
whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the
trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution.  The trustee shall be
protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II
without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the
trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without
written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms
of this agreement.  

IV-4.   Good Faith Actions .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its
powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the
application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is
acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with
the trustee.  

IV-5.   Waiver of Notice .  Any notice required under this agreement may
be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

IV-6.   Controlling Law .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall
govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and
all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and
distribution of the trust hereby created.  

IV-7.   Successors .  This agreement shall be binding on all
persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and
legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  

6  

ARTICLE V 
Changes in Trustee   

V-1.   Resignation or Removal of Trustee .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving
thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by
written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  

V-2.   Appointment of Successor Trustee .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in
the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor
trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then
living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or
distributions under this agreement.  A
successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  

V-3.   Duties of Resigning or Removed Trustee and
of Successor Trustee .  A trustee that
resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the
successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date
of its last account.  Each successor
trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor
without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee
shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of
record in the successor trustee.  Each
successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if
originally named trustee.  No successor
trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a
predecessor trustee.  With the approval
of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and
the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability
for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor
trustee.  

ARTICLE VI 
Amendment and Termination   

VI-1.   Amendment .  With the consent of the administrator, this
trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living,
otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or
distributions hereunder, except as follows:  

(a)              The duties and liabilities of the trustee
cannot be changed substantially without its consent. 

(b)  This trust may not be amended so as
to make the trust revocable.  

VI-2.   Termination .  This trust shall not terminate, and all
rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or
reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries
shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed
by the trustee as provided in Article II.  

*                                 *                                * 

7  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the grantor has executed this amending instrument as of the day and
year first above written.  

Grantor  

The
undersigned, as trustee, acknowledges receipt of the foregoing amending
instrument as of the day and year first above written.  

The Northern
  Trust Company as Trustee  

By  

Its  

The
undersigned, as a duly authorized representative of the administrator of the
trust, hereby consents to the foregoing amending instrument as of the day and
year first above written.  

Abbott
  Laboratories  

By  

Its  

8  

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.7>
 7
 a2188623zex-10_7.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.7

Exhibit 10.7   

Amended
effective 1/1/08   

1998 ABBOTT LABORATORIES PERFORMANCE
INCENTIVE PLAN  

SECTION 1.             ESTABLISHMENT
AND PURPOSES 

1.1                                     ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLAN.  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) established
the  1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan  (the  Plan ), as set
forth in this document.  

The Plan became effective as of January 1,
1998 (the  Effective Date ) with the approval of Abbott s shareholders at the
1998 Annual Meeting of the Shareholders, and shall remain in effect as provided
in Section 6.1 hereof.  The Plan was
amended and restated for documentary compliance with Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the  Code ) as of January 1,
2008.  Notwithstanding anything in the
Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested
before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A)
with respect to participants who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered
Amounts ) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as
administered and as in effect on December 31, 2004.  Amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this
amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered
Amounts unless expressly provided for in the amendment.  The terms and conditions applicable to the
Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  

1.2                                     PURPOSES OF THE PLAN.  The purposes of the Plan are to:  

(a)                                      Prove flexibility to Abbott in its
ability to attract, motivate, and retain the services of participants in the
Plan ( Participants ) who make significant contributions to Abbott s success
and to allow Participants to share in the success of Abbott.  

(b)                                     Optimize the profitability and
growth of Abbott through incentives which are consistent with Abbott s goals
and which link the performance objectives of Participants to those of Abbott s
shareholders; and  

(c)                                      Provide Participants with an
incentive for excellence in individual performance.  

SECTION 2.             ADMINISTRATION 

2.1                                     GENERAL.  The Plan shall be administered by the
Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of
Abbott (the  Board ).  

2.2                                     AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE.  The Committee will have full authority to
administer the Plan, including the authority to interpret and construe any
provision of the Plan, and all rules, regulations and interpretations shall be
conclusive and binding on all persons. 
The Committee has sole responsibility for selecting Participants,
establishing performance objectives, setting award targets, and determining
award amounts.  

2.3                                     DELEGATION BY THE COMMITTEE.  The Committee from time to time may delegate
the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan,
such as the  

keeping
of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select.  The cost of administration of the Plan will
be paid by Abbott.  

SECTION 3.             ELIGIBILITY
AND PARTICIPATION 

3.1                                     ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION.  Eligibility for participation in the Plan
shall be limited to senior officers of Abbott and its subsidiaries.
Participants in the Plan will be determined annually by the Committee from
those senior officers eligible to participate in the Plan.  

SECTION 4.             PERFORMANCE
OBJECTIVES 

4.1                                     PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES.  The Plan s performance objectives (the  Performance
Objectives ) shall be determined with reference to Abbott s consolidated net
earnings prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  

4.2                                     INDIVIDUAL BASE AWARD ALLOCATION--DEFINED.  The base award allocation for the Chief
Executive Officer, if a Participant for such fiscal year, shall be .0015 of the
consolidated net earnings of Abbott for that fiscal year.  The base award allocation for the Chief
Operating Officer, if a Participant for such fiscal year, shall be .0010 of the
consolidated net earnings of Abbott for that fiscal year.  The base award allocation for any other
Participant shall be .00075 of the consolidated net earnings of Abbott for that
fiscal year.  Each such base award will
be increased by interest, at prevailing market rates, accrued on awards
deferred or paid to grantor trusts.  

SECTION 5.             FINAL
AWARDS 

5.1                                     FINAL AWARD ALLOCATION.  As soon as practical after the close of each
fiscal year, a Participant s final award allocation will be determined solely
on the basis of the Performance Objectives. 
In determining a Participant s final award allocation, the Committee
will have the discretion to reduce but not increase a Participant s base award
allocation (as increased by the last sentence of Section 4.2), provided
that a Participant s individual performance will be considered by the Committee
in exercising that discretion.  

5.2                                     PAYMENT OF AWARDS.  A Participant s final award allocation will
be paid or deferred in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee
which, with respect to amounts other than Grandfathered Amounts, comply with
the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.  

SECTION 6.             DURATION,
AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION 

6.1                                     DURATION OF THE PLAN.  The Plan shall commence on the Effective
Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect until
terminated by the Board.  

6.2                                     AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  The Board, in its sole discretion, may modify
or amend any or all of the provisions of the Plan at any time and, without
notice, may suspend or terminate it entirely. 
However, no such modification may, without the consent of the  

2  

Participant,
reduce the right of a Participant to a payment or distribution to which the
Participant is entitled by reason of an outstanding award allocation.  

SECTION 7.             SUCCESSORS 

7.1                                     OBLIGATIONS.  All obligations of Abbott under the Plan with
respect to awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to
Abbott, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or
indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially
all of the business and/or assets of Abbott.  

3  

Exhibit A  

1998 ABBOTT LABORATORIES PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN   

[1998 Abbott Laboratories
Performance Incentive Plan, as filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories
Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 on Form 10-Q; and, Rules
for the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, as filed as
Exhibit 10.17 to the 2004 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.]  

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 8
 a2188623zex-10_8.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

Exhibit 10.8   

As Amended and Restated  

  Effective as of January 1, 2008  

1998 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN (PIP) RULES  

  409A DOCUMENT  

The following rules shall govern the administration of the 1998
Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan (PIP) and any comparable
successor plan with respect to all amounts that are not Grandfathered Amounts.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise
defined in these Rules shall have the meaning provided in the PIP.  These rules shall remain in effect until
amended by the Committee:  

1.                            Fiscal Year   . 
The term  fiscal year , as used in the PIP, means the fiscal period from
time to time employed by Abbott for the purpose of reporting earnings to
shareholders.  

2.                            Consolidated Net Income   . 
 Consolidated Net Income  shall be the consolidated net income for such
fiscal year as stated in Abbott s Audited Financial Statements.  Excluded from the calculation of consolidated
net income will be the effect of changes in GAAP and the tax effects thereon,
and extraordinary gains and loses and the tax effects thereon if presented in
the audited Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

3.                            Naming of Participants   . 
For any fiscal year, all participants in the PIP must be named by the Committee
prior to the completion of the immediately preceding fiscal year.  A PIP participant may not be an active
participant in the MIP in the same fiscal year.  

4.                            Inclusion in Pensionable Earnings   . 
The full amount of any PIP award earned under Rule 5 will be
included in the participant s pensionable earnings.  

5.                            Time of Payment   . 
Beginning with any award allocation paid after December 31, 1998, a
participant must direct payment or deferral of an allocation made to the participant
under the PIP by one or more of the following methods:  

(a)                      In cash to the participant, which
payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month
period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation
  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  

(b)                     A portion in cash and deposited to a
grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form
which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit A)
and the balance paid to the participant approximately equal to the participant s
aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes;
provided that all payments or contributions   

to the Grantor Trust and
participant contemplated by this Section 5(b) shall be made no later
than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period , as such term is defined
in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  

(c)                     Deferral of payment until the time,
and in the manner determined in Rule 17.  

Amounts paid under the PIP will
not be considered amounts paid under the MIP for purposes of subsections 3.3
and 3.4 and Section 4 of the MIP. 
The base salaries of PIP participants will not be considered for
determination of the MIP amount in subsection 3.3 of the MIP.  

6.                            Time of Election   .  

(a)                      A participant must make the election
described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee before expiration of
the election period established by the Committee, which period shall end    no
later than December 31 of the fiscal year prior to the year during which
the performance incentive compensation is earned under the PIP.  

(b)                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements
of Rule 6(a), an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in
the PIP by being designated as a participant under Section 3.1 of the PIP
(and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be
aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the
an initial deferral election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the
Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately
following the date he or she first is designated as participant,  provided ,
that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to
services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed
to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election
applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  

(c)                      Any election described in Rule 5
shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  

7.                            Accounts   . 
The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made
elections pursuant to Rule 5(b) or 5(c) as follows.  

(a)                      The Committee will maintain a  Deferred
Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of
all or a portion of his or her PIP award under Rule 5(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of
allocations deferred according to Rule 5(c) and any adjustments made
in accordance with Rule 8.  

2  

(b)                     The Committee will maintain two separate
Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account , in the name of each
participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion
of his or her PIP award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b).  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the
aggregate of all allocations contemplated by Rule 5(b), whether deposited
to the participant s Grantor Trust or made in cash to the participant, and any
adjustments made in accordance with Rule 9.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of
allocations deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to Rule 5(b) and
any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 10.  

8.                            Adjustment of Deferred Accounts   . 
At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account will be
adjusted as follows:  

(a)                      First, reduced by an amount equal to
any distribution made to the participant during the year according to Rule 17
or Rule 18;  

(b)                     Next, increased by an amount equal
to any allocation for that year that is deferred according to Rule 5(c);
and  

(c)                      Last, increased by an amount equal
to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  

9.                            Adjustment of Pre-Tax Accounts   . 
At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Pre-Tax Account will be
adjusted as follows:  

(a)                      First, reduced, in any year in which
the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the
participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to Rule 5(b) had
instead been deferred under Rule 5(c);  

(b)                     Next, increased by an amount equal
to any allocation for that year that is paid to the participant (including the
amount paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to Rule 5(b);
and  

(c)                      Last, increased by an amount equal
to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  

10.                      Adjustment of After-Tax Accounts   . 
At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account will
be adjusted as follows:  

(a)                      First, reduced, in any year in which
the participant is in receipt of a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust,
by an amount calculated as provided in Rule 28 which represents the
distribution for such year;  

3  

(b)                     Next, increased by an amount equal
to the allocation for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor
Trust according to Rule 5(b); and  

(c)                      Last, increased by an amount equal
to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  

11.                      Interest Accruals on Accounts   .  

(a)                      As of the end of each fiscal year, a
participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be
credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of
interest  published by The Wall Street
Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the
first business day of January and the last business day of each month of
the fiscal year; plus  

(ii)                                      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis
points.  

(b)                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a
participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest
set forth above, multiplied by the aggregate of the federal, state and local
individual income tax rates determined in accordance with Rule 26 (the  After-Tax
Interest ).  

(c)                      The Interest and After-Tax Interest,
as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the
Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been
made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal
year in which the award is made.  

12.                      Guaranteed Rate Payments   . 
In addition to any allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year
in accordance with Rule 5(b), Abbott shall also make a payment to a
participant s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each year in
which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The
Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s
Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the
participant s Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)
days beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a
year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s
After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with Rule 11(b).  

13.                      Grantor Trust Assets   . 
Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the
instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the
Committee.  Such investment guidelines,
once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change
shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is
made and provided further that the instruments   

4  

specified
shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form
of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Attachment A.  

14.                      Designation of Beneficiaries   . 
Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each
participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated
by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this Rule 14, shall
have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or
beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to
receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the
PIP.  Beneficiaries may be a natural
person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal
representative of an estate.  Any such
designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such
beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary,
upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of
the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the PIP).  The conditions and limitations relating to
the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  

(a)                      A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall
have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the
original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may
be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  

(b)                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall
designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other
fiduciaries that are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the
participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  

Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary
under this Rule 14 may be exercised only by an instrument in writing,
executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed
with the Secretary of Abbott during the person s lifetime or prior to the
termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If
a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right
to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a
further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is
living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct
distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either: (i)  any
one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the
participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such
proportions as the Committee determines; or (ii)  the legal representative
of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case
may be.  

15.                      Non-assignability and Facility of
Payment   .  Amounts payable to participants and their
beneficiaries under the PIP are not in any way subject to their debts and other
obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned;
provided that the provisions of these Rules shall not be construed as
restricting   

5  

in any way a
designation right granted to a beneficiary under Rule 14.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a
participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or
beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the
participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary,
or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the
participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  

16.                      Payer of Amounts Allocated to
Participants   .  Any amount allocated to a participant in the
PIP and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such
employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal
year for which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant
shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the
amount allocated under the PIP for that year shall be an obligation of each of
the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary
paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  

17.                      Manner of Payment of Deferred
Accounts   .  Subject to Rule 18, a participant shall
elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual
installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the
time of his deferral election under Rule 5.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account
shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following
the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  

18.                      Payment Upon Termination Following
Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
PIP or the provisions of any award made under the PIP, if a participant incurs
a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within
two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the
event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as
such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with
respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are deferred in
accordance with Section 5(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the
participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum
within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment,
and (b) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are
made pursuant to Section 5(b), (i) the aggregate of the participant s
unpaid allocation under Section 5(b) (if any) for the fiscal year in
which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed
Rate Payment under Rule 12 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed
prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor
Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such
termination of employment.  

19.                      Change in Control   . 
A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest
of the following dates:  

6  

(a)                      the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of
the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any
Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction
described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  

(b)                     the date the following individuals
cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then
serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board and any new
director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not
limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of
Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election
by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for
election was previously so approved or recommended; or  

(c)                      the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a
merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals
who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority
of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott
or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities
of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or
consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar
transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially
Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its
Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s
then outstanding securities; or  

(d)                     the date the shareholders of Abbott
approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is
consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or
substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale  

7  

or disposition
by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least
50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or
series of transactions continue to have    substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially
all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of
transactions.  

For purposes of these Rules:  Affiliate 
shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities
pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned,
directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  

20.                      Potential Change in Control   . 
A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which
the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below,
exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to
exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  

(a)                      Abbott enters into an agreement, the
consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control,
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall
cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  

(b)                     Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a  

8  

determination
by the Board that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be
consummated.  

(c)                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more
of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined
voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any
securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired
directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  

(d)                     The Board adopts a resolution to the
effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control
exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph
(d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board that the
reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a
Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  

21.                      Prohibition Against Amendment   . 
The provisions of Rules 18, 19, 20 and this Rule 21 may not be
amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other Rule, (i) during the
pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning
on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

22.                      Reliance Upon Advice   . 
The Board and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice
furnished to it by any Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors,
or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information
or advice.  No member of the Board or the
Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part,
excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they
be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  

23.                      Taxes   . 
Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or
withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax, attributable to any
amounts payable by it under the PIP after giving the person entitled to receive
such amount notice as far in advance as practicable, and may require payment from
the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting
such taxes.  

24.                      Rights of Participants   . 
Employment rights of participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall
not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant
in the PIP.  Nothing contained in the PIP
shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets,
funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been
deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and
After-Tax Accounts established in accordance with Rule 7 are for the
convenience of the administration of the PIP and no trust relationship with
respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment
to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the PIP
and these Rules.  Any decision made by
the Board or the Committee, which is  

9  

within the
sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding
upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  

25.                      Tax Adjustment Payment   . 
In addition to the allocations provided in accordance with Rule 5,
each participant who has established a Grantor Trust (or, if the participant is
deceased, the beneficiary designated under the participant s Grantor Trust)
shall be entitled to a Tax Adjustment Payment for each year in which the Grantor
Trust is in effect.  Payment of the Tax
Adjustment Payment shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as
Abbott shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets, no later
than the end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related
taxes.  The  Tax Adjustment Payment 
shall equal:  

(a)                      the amount necessary to compensate
the participant (or beneficiary) for the net increase in the participant s (or
beneficiary s) federal, state and local income taxes as a result of the
inclusion in his or her taxable income of the income of the participant s Grantor
Trust and any Guaranteed Rate Payment for that year; plus  

(b)                    an amount necessary to compensate the participant (or
beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a
result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this Rule 25.  

26.                      Income Tax Assumptions   . 
For purposes of these Rules, a participant s federal income tax rate shall
be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual tax in
effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the Rules is to
be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest
marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of
the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any
federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  

27.                      Change of Conditions Relating to
Payments   .  No change to the time of payment or the time
of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made
shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements
of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  

28.                      Administrator s Calculation of
Grantor Trust Distributions   . The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be
distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the
participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the
amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Rule 9(a), by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax
Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is
the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date  

29.                      Section 409A   . 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that these Rules comply
with the provisions of Code Section 409A. 
The Rules will be administered and interpreted  

10  

in a manner
consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Rules to
fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until
amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent
permitted by Code Section 409A). 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all
purposes of these Rules, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a
termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from
service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent
required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A
and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under
the Rules that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period
after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day
after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate
equal to the rate specified in Rule 11 (to the extent that such interest
is not already provided to the participant under Rule 12), from the
respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the
actual date of payment.  In addition, for
purposes of these Rules, each amount to be paid and each installment payment
shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  

11  

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 9
 a2188623zex-10_9.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.9

Exhibit 10.9   

  ABBOTT
LABORATORIES  

  1996
INCENTIVE STOCK PROGRAM  

  (as
amended and restated through the  

  5th
Amendment January 1, 2008)  

1.             PURPOSE.  The
purpose of the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program (the  Program )
is to attract and retain outstanding directors, officers and other employees of
Abbott Laboratories (the  Company ) and its subsidiaries, and to furnish
incentives to such persons by providing opportunities to acquire common shares
of the Company, or monetary payments based on the value of such shares or the
financial performance of the Company, or both, on advantageous terms as herein
provided and to further align such persons  interests with those of the Company s
other shareholders through compensation that is based on the value of the
Company s common shares.  

2.             ADMINISTRATION. 
The Program will be administered by a committee (the  Committee ) of at
least two persons which shall be either the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors of the Company (the  Board of Directors ) or such other committee
comprised entirely of persons who are both: (i)  disinterested persons  as
defined in Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (ii)  outside
directors  as defined under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), or any successor provision; as the Board
of Directors may from time to time designate. 
The Committee shall interpret the Program, prescribe, amend and rescind rules and
regulations relating thereto and make all other determinations necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Program. A majority of the members of
the Committee shall constitute a quorum and all determinations of the Committee
shall be made by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee
under the Program may be made without notice of meeting of the Committee by a
writing signed by all of the Committee members. 
The Committee may, from time to time, delegate any or all of its duties,
powers and authority to any officer or officers of the Company, except to the
extent such delegation would be inconsistent with Rule 16b-3 of the
Securities and Exchange Commission or other applicable law, rule or
regulation.  The Chief Executive Officer
of the Company may, on behalf of the Committee, grant stock options, restricted
stock awards, and restricted stock units under the Program, other than to
persons subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the  Exchange Act ).  All such
grants by the Chief Executive Officer must be reported to, and ratified by, the
Committee within twelve months of the grant date but, if ratified, shall be
effective as of the grant date.  

3.             PARTICIPANTS. 
Participants in the Program will consist of such officers and other
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries as the Committee in its sole
discretion may designate from time to time to receive Benefits hereunder.  The Committee s designation of a participant
in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such person to receive
a Benefit in any other year.  The
Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting
participants and in determining the type and amount of their respective
Benefits, including without limitation (i) the financial condition of the
Company; (ii) anticipated profits for the current or future years; (iii) contributions
of participants to the profitability and development of the Company; (iv) prior
awards to participants; and (v) other compensation  

provided to
participants.  Non-Employee Directors
shall also be participants in the Program solely for purposes of receiving
Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units under paragraph 13 and
Non-qualified Stock Options under paragraph 14. 
The term  Non-Employee Director  shall mean a member of the Board of
Directors who is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries.  

4.             TYPES OF BENEFITS. 
Benefits under the Program may be granted in any one of a combination of
(a) Incentive Stock Options; (b) Non-qualified Stock Options; (c) Stock
Appreciation Rights; (d) Limited Stock Appreciation Rights; (e) Restricted
Stock Awards; (f) Restricted Stock Units; (g) Performance Awards; and
(h) Foreign Qualified Benefits, all as described below.  

5.             SHARES RESERVED UNDER THE PROGRAM.  There is hereby reserved for issuance under
the Program: (i) an aggregate of Five Million (5,000,000) common shares;
plus (ii) an authorization for each calendar year (the  Annual
Authorization ) for the years 1996 through 1999, of seven-tenths of one percent
(0.7%) of the total common shares of the Company issued and outstanding as of
the first day of such calendar year and for the years from and including 2000,
one and a half percent (1.5%) of the total common shares of the Company issued
and outstanding as of the first day of such calendar year; which may be newly
issued or treasury shares. The shares hereby reserved are in addition to the
shares previously reserved under the Company s 1981 Incentive Stock Program,
1986 Incentive Stock Program and 1991 Incentive Stock Program (the  Prior
Programs ). Any common shares reserved for issuance under the Prior Programs in
excess of the number of shares as to which options or other Benefits have been
awarded on the date of shareholder approval of this Program, plus any such
shares as to which options or other Benefits granted under the Prior Programs
may lapse, expire, terminate or be canceled after such date, shall also be
reserved and available for issuance in connection with Benefits under this
Program. Any common shares reserved under the Program for any calendar year
under an Annual Authorization as to which options or other Benefits have not
been awarded as of the end of such calendar year shall be available for
issuance in connection with Benefits granted in subsequent years.  

If there is a lapse,
expiration, termination or cancellation of any Benefit granted hereunder
without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, or if shares are
issued under any Benefit and thereafter are reacquired by the Company pursuant
to rights reserved upon the issuance thereof, or shares are reacquired pursuant
to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery
of other common shares of the Company, the shares subject to or reserved for such
Benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new options, rights or awards
of any sort authorized under this Program; provided, however, that in no event
may the number of common shares issued under this Program, and not reacquired
by the Company pursuant to rights reserved upon the issuance thereof or
pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by
delivery of other common shares of the Company, exceed the total number of
shares reserved for issuance hereunder.  

6.             INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. 
Incentive Stock Options will consist of options to purchase common
shares at purchase prices not less than One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair
Market Value of such common shares on the date of grant. An Incentive Stock
Option will not be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from
the date such option is  

2  

granted. In the event of
termination of employment for any reason other than retirement, disability or
death, the right of the optionee to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall
terminate upon the earlier of the end of the original term of the option or
three (3) months after the optionee s last day of work for the Company and
its subsidiaries. In the event of termination of employment due to retirement
or disability, or if the optionee should die while employed, the right of the
optionee or his or her successor in interest to exercise an Incentive Stock
Option shall terminate upon the end of the original term of the option. If the
optionee should die within three (3) months after termination of
employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the right of his
or her successor in interest to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall
terminate upon the earlier of the end of the original term of the option or
three (3) months after the date of such death. To the extent the aggregate
fair market value (determined as of the time the Option is granted) of the
common shares with respect to which any Incentive Stock Option is exercisable
for the first time by any individual during any calendar year (under all option
plans of the Company and its subsidiary corporations) exceeds $100,000, the
excess shall be treated as a Non-qualified Stock Option. An Incentive Stock
Option shall be exercisable as determined by the Committee, but in no event
earlier than six (6) months from its grant date.  

7.             NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS.  Non-qualified Stock Options will consist of
options to purchase common shares at purchase prices not less than One Hundred
percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such common shares on the date of
grant. A Non-qualified Stock Option will not be exercisable after the
expiration of ten (10) years from the date such option is granted. In the
event of termination of employment for any reason other than retirement,
disability or death, the right of the optionee to exercise a Non-qualified
Stock Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the end of the original term
of the option or three (3) months after the optionee s last day of work
for the Company and its subsidiaries. In the event of termination of employment
due to retirement or disability, or if the optionee should die while employed,
the right of the optionee or his or her successor in interest to exercise a
Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate upon the end of the original term of
the option. If the optionee should die within three (3) months after
termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability,
the right of his or her successor in interest to exercise a Non-qualified Stock
Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the end of the original term of the
option or three (3) months after the date of such death. A Non-qualified
Stock Option shall be exercisable as determined by the Committee, but in no
event earlier than six (6) months from its grant date.  

8.             STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.  The Committee may, in its discretion, grant a
Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any stock option granted hereunder or
under the Prior Programs. Such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to
such terms and conditions consistent with the Program as the Committee shall
impose from time to time, including the following:  

(a)                                      A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with respect to a
stock option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter up to six (6) months
prior to its expiration.  

3  

(b)                                     Stock Appreciation Rights will permit the holder to surrender
any related stock option or portion thereof which is then exercisable and to
elect to receive in exchange therefor cash in an amount equal to:  

(i)                                         The excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of such
election of one common share over the option price multiplied by  

(ii)                                      The number of shares covered by such option or portion
thereof which is so surrendered.  

(c)                                      A Stock Appreciation Right granted to a participant who is
subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act may be exercised only after six (6) months
from its grant date (unless such exercise would not affect the exemption under Rule 16b-3
of the Securities and Exchange Commission).  

(d)                                     A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a participant
regardless of whether such participant has been granted a Limited Stock Appreciation
Right with respect to the same stock option. 
However, a Stock Appreciation Right may not be exercised during any
period that a Limited Stock Appreciation Right with respect to the same stock
option may be exercised.  

(e)                                      In the event of the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right,
the number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder shall be reduced by the
number of shares covered by the stock option or portion thereof surrendered.  

9.             LIMITED STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.  The Committee may, in its discretion, grant a
Limited Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any stock option granted
hereunder or under the Prior Programs. 
Such Limited Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such terms
and conditions consistent with the Program as the Committee shall impose from
time to time, including the following:  

(a)                                      A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with
respect to a stock option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter up
to six (6) months prior to its expiration.  

(b)                                     A Limited Stock Appreciation Right will permit the holder to
surrender any related stock option or portion thereof which is then exercisable
and to receive in exchange therefor cash in an amount equal to:  

(i)                                         The excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of such
election of one common share over the option price multiplied by  

(ii)                                      The number of shares covered by such option or portion
thereof which is so surrendered.  

(c)                                      A Limited Stock Appreciation Right granted to a participant
who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act may be exercised only
after six (6) months from its grant date (unless such exercise would not
affect the exemption under   

4  

Rule 16b-3
of the Securities and Exchange Commission) and only during the sixty (60) day
period commencing on the later of:  

(i)                                         the day following the date of a Change in Control; or (ii) the
first date on which such exercise would be exempt under Rule 16b-3 of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  

(d)                                     A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a
participant regardless of whether such participant has been granted a Stock
Appreciation Right with respect to the same stock option.  

(e)                                      In the event of the exercise of a Limited Stock Appreciation
Right, the number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder shall be reduced by
the number of shares covered by the stock option or portion thereof
surrendered.  

10.           RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS  

(a)                                      RESTRICTED STOCK
AWARDS.  Restricted Stock Awards will
consist of common shares transferred to participants without other payment
therefor as additional compensation for their services to the Company or any of
its subsidiaries. Restricted Stock Awards granted under this paragraph 10 shall
be satisfied from the Company s available treasury shares.  Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to
such terms and conditions as the Committee determines appropriate, including,
without limitation, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of such
shares and rights of the Company to reacquire such shares upon termination of
the participant s employment within specified periods.  Subject to such other restrictions as are
imposed by the Committee, the common shares covered by a Restricted Stock Award
granted to a participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act
may be sold or otherwise disposed of only after six (6) months from the
grant date of the award (unless such sale would not affect the exemption under Rule 16b-3
of the Securities and Exchange Commission).  

(b)                                     RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.  Restricted Stock Units will consist of an
unfunded promise to deliver shares of stock at some future date to participants
without other payment therefor as additional compensation for their services to
the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
Stock delivered under this paragraph 10(b) shall be satisfied from
the Company s available treasury shares. 
Restricted Stock Units granted under this paragraph 10(b) shall be
subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee determines appropriate,
including, without limitation, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of
such stock units, the rights of the Company to provide for the forfeiture of
such stock units upon termination of the participant s employment within
specified periods and the right to receive dividend equivalent payments.  

(c)                                      No more than ten percent
(10%) of the total number of shares available for grant in any calendar year
may be granted as Restricted Stock Units or   

5  

Restricted Stock Awards (in the aggregate) under
paragraphs 10 and 13 in that year.  

11.           PERFORMANCE AWARDS. 
Performance Awards in the form of Performance Units or Performance
Shares may be granted to any participant in the Program.  Performance Units shall consist of monetary
awards which may be earned in whole or in part if the Company achieves certain
goals established by the Committee over a designated period of time.
Performance Shares shall consist of common shares or awards denominated in
common shares which may be earned in whole or in part if the Company achieves
certain goals established by the Committee over a designated period of time.
The goals established by the Committee shall be based on any one, or
combination of, earnings per share, return on equity, return on assets, total
shareholder return, net operating income, cash flow, increase in revenue,
economic value added, increase in share price or cash flow return on
investment. Partial achievement of the goal(s) may result in a payment or
vesting corresponding to the degree of achievement. Payment of an award earned
may be in cash or in common shares or in a combination of both, and may be made
when earned, or may be vested and deferred, as the Committee in its sole
discretion determines.  The maximum
amount which may be granted under all Performance Awards for any one year for
any one participant shall be Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000). This limit
shall be applied to Performance Shares by multiplying the number of Performance
Shares granted by the fair market value of one common share on the date of the
award.  During the term of the Program,
no more than 5 million shares of Abbott common stock may be granted in the form
of Performance Units and no more than 5 million shares of Abbott common stock
may be granted in the form of Performance Shares. This paragraph 11 is intended
to comply with the performance-based compensation requirements of Code Section 162(m),
and shall be interpreted in accordance with the rules and regulations
thereunder.  

12.           FOREIGN QUALIFIED BENEFITS.  Benefits under the Program may be granted to
such employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who are residing in foreign
jurisdictions as the Committee in its sole discretion may determine from time
to time.  The Committee may adopt such
supplements to the Program as may be necessary to comply with the applicable
laws of such foreign jurisdictions and to afford participants favorable
treatment under such laws; provided, however, that no Benefit shall be granted
under any such supplement with terms or conditions which are inconsistent with
the provisions as set forth under the Program.  

13.           RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.  

(a)                                      Each year, on the date of the annual shareholders meeting,
each person who is elected a Non-Employee Director at the annual shareholders
meeting shall be awarded both:  (i) Restricted
Stock Units covering a number of common shares with a Fair Market Value on the
date of the award closest to, but not in excess of, an amount equal to six
times the monthly fee in effect under Section 3.1 of the Abbott
Laboratories Non-Employee Director s Fee Plan on the date of the award and (ii) Restricted
Stock Units covering a number of common shares with a Fair Market Value on the
date of the award closest to, but not in excess of, Fifty Thousand Dollars
($50,000).  

6  

(b)                                     VESTING AND PAYMENT. 
The Restricted Stock Units granted under this paragraph 13 shall be
fully vested on the date of the award. 
The Non-Employee Director receiving the Restricted Stock Units shall be
entitled to receive one common share for each common share subject to the award
upon the earliest of the following events (the  Termination Event ):  

(i)                                         The date the director terminates or retires from the Board;  

(ii)                                      The date the director dies; or  

(iii)                                   The date of occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in
paragraph 2(c)) which also qualifies as a  change in control event,  as such
term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5).  

(c)                                      DIVIDENDS.  The
Non-Employee Director receiving the Restricted Stock Units shall be entitled to
receive cash payments equal to the dividends and distributions paid on shares
of stock (other than dividends or distributions of securities of the Company
which may be issued with respect to its shares by virtue of any stock split,
combination, stock dividend or recapitalization) to the same extent as if each
Restricted Stock Unit was a share of stock, and those shares were not subject
to the restrictions imposed by this Program, provided that the record date with
respect to such dividend or distribution occurs within the period commencing
with the date of the award and ending upon the date of the Termination Event (the
 Restricted Period ).  

(d)                                     RESTRICTIONS.  All
Restricted Stock Units granted under this paragraph 13 shall be subject to the
following restrictions during the Restricted Period:  

(i)                                         The Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, assigned,
transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of.  

(ii)                                      Any additional common shares of the Company or other
securities or property issued with respect to shares covered by awards granted
under this paragraph 13 as a result of any stock split, combination, stock
dividend or recapitalization, shall be subject to the restrictions and other
provisions of this paragraph 13.  

(iii)                                   A director shall not be entitled to receive any shares prior
to completion of all actions deemed appropriate by the Company to comply with
federal or state securities laws and stock exchange requirements.  

7  

(e)                                      Except in the event of conflict, all provisions of the
Program shall apply to this paragraph 13. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and
this paragraph 13, this paragraph 13 shall control.  Restricted Stock Units granted under this
paragraph 13 shall be satisfied from the Company s available treasury shares.  

14.           NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.  

(a)                                      Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive any or all of
his or her fees earned during the second half of 1996 and each subsequent
calendar year under Section 3 of the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee
Directors  Fee Plan (the  Directors  Fee Plan ) in the form of Non-qualified
Stock Options under this Section 14. 
Each such election shall be irrevocable, and must be made in writing and
filed with the Secretary of the Company by December 31, 1995 (for fees
earned in the second half of 1996) and (for fees earned in subsequent calendar
years) by June 30 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in
which such fees are earned (or such later date as may be permissible under Rule 16b-3
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, but in no event later than December 31
of such preceding calendar year).  

(b)                                     A Non-Employee Director may file a new election each calendar
year applicable to fees earned in the immediately succeeding calendar year. If
no new election or revocation of a prior election is received by June 30
of any calendar year (or such later date as may be permissible under paragraph
(a)), the election, if any, in effect for such calendar year shall continue in
effect for the immediately succeeding calendar year. Any election made under
this Section 14 shall take precedence over any election made by the
director for the same period, under the Directors  Fee Plan, to the extent
necessary to resolve any conflict between such elections.  If a director does not elect to receive his
or her fees in the form of Non-qualified Stock Options, the fees due such
director shall be paid or deferred as provided in the Directors  Fee Plan and
any applicable election thereunder by the director.  

(c)                                      The number of common shares covered by each Non-qualified
Stock Option granted in any year under this Section 14 shall be determined
based on an independent appraisal for such year of the intrinsic value of
options granted hereunder and the amount of fees covered by the director s
election for such year.  The number of
common shares covered by options granted in 1996 (as determined under this
procedure) shall be the number of whole shares equal to (i) the product of
three (3) times the amount of fees which the director has elected under
paragraph (a) to receive in the form of Non-qualified Stock Options,
divided by (ii) One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of one
common share on the grant date. Any fraction of a share shall be disregarded,
and the remaining amount of the fees corresponding to such option shall be paid
as provided in the Directors  Fee Plan and any applicable election thereunder
by the director.  

8  

(d)                                     Effective on October 10, 1997, each Non-qualified Stock
Option due a director under this Section 14 prior to the 1998 annual
shareholders meeting shall be granted on October 10, 1997 at a purchase
price equal to One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the
common shares covered by such option on the grant date.  Effective with the 1998 Annual Shareholders
Meeting, each Non-qualified Stock Option due a director under this Section 14
shall be granted annually, on the date of the annual shareholders meeting, at a
purchase price equal to One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of
the common shares covered by such option on the grant date.  Each such option shall be immediately
exercisable and nonforfeitable, and shall not be exercisable after the
expiration of ten (10) years from the date it is granted. Each such option
shall contain provisions allowing payment of the purchase price and, to the
extent permitted, any taxes due on exercise, by delivery of other common shares
of the Company (or, in the case of the payment of taxes, by withholding of
shares).  

(e)                                      All Non-qualified Stock Options granted under this Section 14
prior to October 10, 1997, shall be immediately exercisable and
nonforfeitable, and shall not be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years
from the date granted.  

15.           NONTRANSFERABILITY. 
Except as provided by the Committee, each stock option and stock
appreciation right granted under this Program shall not be transferable other
than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable,
during the participant s lifetime, only by the participant or the participant s
guardian or legal representative.  

16.           OTHER PROVISIONS. 
The award of any Benefit under the Program may also be subject to other
provisions (whether or not applicable to the Benefit awarded to any other participant)
as the Committee determines appropriate, including, without limitation,
provisions for the purchase of common shares under stock options in
installments, provisions for the payment of the purchase price of shares under
stock options by delivery of other common shares of the Company having a then
market value equal to the purchase price of such shares, restrictions on resale
or other disposition, such provisions as may be appropriate to comply with
federal or state securities laws and stock exchange requirements and
understandings or conditions as to the participant s employment in addition to
those specifically provided for under the Program.  

In the case of a participant
who is subject to Section 16(a) and 16(b) of the Exchange Act,
the Committee may, at any time, add such conditions and limitations to any
Benefit granted to such participant, or any feature of any such Benefit, as the
Committee, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or desirable to comply with Section 16(a) or
16(b) and the rules and regulations thereunder or to obtain any
exemption therefrom. A participant may pay the purchase price of shares under
stock options by delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the
Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay the purchase price.  To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may
enter into agreements for coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms.  

9  

The Committee may, in its
discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt, permit or require a
participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, state and local taxes,
including FICA and medicare withholding tax, arising in connection with the
following transactions: (a) the exercise of a Non-qualified Stock Option; (b) the
lapse of restrictions on common shares received as a Restricted Stock Award; or
(c) the receipt or exercise of any other Benefit; by (i) having the
Company withhold common shares, (ii) tendering back common shares received
in connection with such Benefit or (iii) delivering other previously
acquired common shares of the Company having a fair market value approximately
equal to the amount to be withheld.  

The Committee may grant
stock options under the Program (and, for stock options granted prior to
shareholder approval of this Program, under the Company s 1991 Incentive Stock
Program) that provide for the grant of replacement stock options if all or any
portion of the purchase price or taxes incurred in connection with the
exercise, are paid by delivery (or, in the case of payment of taxes, by
withholding of shares) of other common shares of the Company.  The replacement stock option shall cover the
number of common shares surrendered to pay the purchase price, plus the number
of shares surrendered or withheld to satisfy the participant s tax liability,
shall have an exercise price equal to One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair
Market Value of such common shares on the date such replacement stock option is
granted, shall first be exercisable six months from the date of grant of the
replacement stock option and shall have an expiration date equal to the
expiration date of the original stock option.  

To the extent applicable, it
is intended that the Program comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Program will be administered and
interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that
would cause the Program to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no
force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be
retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, for all purposes of the Program, a participant shall not be
deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has
incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and,
to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under
Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of
the amounts payable under the Program that would otherwise be payable during
the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the
first business day after the expiration of such six-month period.  In addition, for purposes of the Program,
each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a
separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  

17.           TERM OF PROGRAM AND AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, CANCELLATION
OR ACCELERATION OF BENEFITS.  The Program
shall continue in effect until terminated by the Board of Directors, except
that no Incentive Stock Option shall be granted after October 13, 2005 and
that no other Benefits shall be granted after April 27, 2010.  The terms and conditions applicable to any
Benefits may at any time be amended, modified or canceled by mutual agreement
between the Committee and the participant or such other persons as may then
have an interest therein, so long as any amendment or modification does not
increase the number of common shares issuable under this Program; and provided
further, that the Committee may, at any time and in its sole discretion,
declare any or all stock options and   

10  

stock appreciation rights
then outstanding under the Program or the Prior Programs to be exercisable and
any or all the then outstanding Restricted Stock Awards or Restricted Stock
Units to be vested, whether or not such options, rights or awards are then
otherwise exercisable or vested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as
provided in paragraph 22, the Committee shall neither lower the purchase price
of any option granted under the Program nor grant any option under the Program
in replacement of a cancelled option which had previously been granted at a
higher purchase price, without shareholder approval.  

18.           AMENDMENT TO PRIOR PROGRAMS. No options or other Benefits
shall be granted under the Prior Programs on or after the date of shareholder
approval of this Program.  

19.           INDIVIDUAL LIMIT ON OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS;
AGGREGATE LIMIT ON INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. The maximum number of shares with
respect to which Incentive Stock Options, Non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
Appreciation Rights and Limited Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to any
one participant, in aggregate in any one calendar year, shall be Two Million
(2,000,000) shares. Incentive Stock Options with respect to no more than the
lesser of (i) One Hundred and Fifty Million (150,000,000) shares (plus any
shares acquired by the Company pursuant to payment of the purchase price of
shares under incentive stock options by delivery of other common shares of the
Company), or (ii) the total number of shares reserved under paragraph 5
may be issued under the Plan.  

20.           TAXES.  The Company shall be entitled to withhold the
amount of any tax attributable to any amount payable or shares deliverable
under the Program after giving the person entitled to receive such amount or
shares notice as far in advance as practicable, and the Company may defer
making payment or delivery if any such tax may be pending unless and until
indemnified to its satisfaction.  

21.           DEFINITIONS.  

(a)                                      FAIR MARKET VALUE. 
Except as provided below, the Fair Market Value of the Company s common
shares shall be determined by such methods or procedures as shall be
established by the Committee; provided that, in the case of any Limited Stock
Appreciation Right (other than a right related to an Incentive Stock Option),
the Fair Market Value shall be the higher of:  

(i)                                         The highest daily closing price of the Company s common
shares during the sixty (60) day period following the Change in Control; or  

(ii)                                      The highest gross price paid or to be paid for the Company s
common shares in any of the transactions described in paragraphs 21(c)(i) and
21(c)(ii).  

(b)                                     SUBSIDIARY.  The term  subsidiary 
for all purposes other than the Incentive Stock Option provisions in paragraph
6, shall mean any corporation, partnership, joint venture or business trust,
fifty percent (50%) or more of the control of which is owned, directly or
indirectly, by the Company. For   

11  

Incentive Stock Option
purposes the term  subsidiary  shall be defined as provided in Internal Revenue
Code Section 424(f).  

(c)                                      CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change
in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following
dates:  

(i)                                         the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner,
directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the
securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly
from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined
voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person
who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described
in clause (a) of paragraph (iii) below; or  

(ii)                                      the date the following individuals cease for any reason to
constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who,
on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director
(other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with
an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a
consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company)
whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
election by the Company s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of
at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for
election was previously so approved or recommended; or  

(iii)                                   the date on which there is consummated a merger or
consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the
Company with any other corporation or other entity, other than (a) a
merger or consolidation (I) immediately following which the individuals
who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at
least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the entity surviving
such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such
merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (II) which
results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior
to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting
power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent
thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (b) a
merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company
(or similar transaction)   

12  

in which no Person is or
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the
Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any
securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing
20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding
securities; or  

(iv)                                  the date the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of
complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially
all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of
all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, at least 50% of
the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of the Company, in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company
or any subsidiary of the Company, in substantially the same proportions as
their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue
of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions
immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the
Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions
continue to have    substantially the
same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all
of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series
of transactions.  

For purposes of this
Program:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the
meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; and  Person  shall
have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as
modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that
such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a
trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily
holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a
corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company
in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the
Company.  

(d)                                     DISABILITY.  The term  disability 
for all purposes of the Program shall mean the participant s disability as
defined in subsection 4.1(a) of the Abbott Laboratories Extended
Disability Plan for twelve (12) consecutive months.  

13  

22.           ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS.  

(a)                                      If the Company shall at any time change the number of issued
common shares without new consideration to the Company (such as by stock
dividends or stock splits), the total number of shares reserved for issuance
under this Program, the individual and aggregate limits described in paragraphs
11 and 19 on the number of shares that may be granted or issued (as the case
may be), the number of shares covered by each outstanding Benefit and the
purchase price of such shares shall be adjusted so that the aggregate
consideration payable to the Company and the value of each such Benefit shall
not be changed.  Subject to paragraph
22(c), the Committee shall also have the right to provide for the continuation
of Benefits or for other equitable adjustments after changes in the Company or
in the common shares resulting from reorganization, sale, merger,
consolidation, spin-off or similar occurrence.  

(b)                                     Subject to paragraph 22(c), without affecting the number of
shares otherwise reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize
the issuance or assumption of Benefits in connection with any merger,
consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such
terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.  

(c)                                      Notwithstanding any other provision of this Program or the
Prior Programs including the terms of any Benefit granted hereunder, if the
outstanding common shares of the Company shall be combined, or be changed into,
or exchanged for, another kind of stock of the Company, into securities of
another corporation, or into property (including cash) whether through
recapitalization, reorganization, sale, merger, consolidation, spin-off,
business combination or a similar transaction (a  Transaction ), the Company
shall cause its successor, acquiror (or ultimate parent of any successor or
acquiror), as applicable, to assume each stock option, Stock Appreciation Right
and Limited Stock Appreciation Right outstanding immediately prior to the
Transaction (or to cause new options or rights to be substituted
therefor).  Pursuant to such assumed or
substituted option or rights, participants shall thereafter be entitled to
receive, upon due exercise of any portion of the option or right, (a) in
the event of a Transaction in which the outstanding common shares of the
Company are combined, or changed into, or exchanged for, solely another kind of
stock of the Company or securities of another corporation (disregarding, for
this purpose, cash paid in lieu of fractional shares), the securities which
that person would have been entitled to receive for common shares acquired
through exercise of the same portion of such option or right immediately prior
to the effective date of such Transaction, and (b) in the event of a Transaction
in which the outstanding common shares of the Company are changed into, or
exchanged for, property (including cash) other than solely stock of the Company
or securities of another corporation (disregarding, for this purpose, cash paid
in lieu of fractional shares), securities the fair market value of which
immediately following the effective date of such Transaction (as determined by
the Committee) equals the fair market value (as determined by the Committee) of
the property which that person would have been entitled to receive for common
shares acquired through exercise of the same portion of such option or   

14  

right immediately prior to
the effective date of such Transaction. 
In each case such assumed or substituted option or right shall continue
to be subject to the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation,
with respect to any right to receive  replacement options  upon option
exercise) to which it was subject immediately prior to the Transaction.  

Notwithstanding the
immediately preceding paragraph, upon a Transaction in which the outstanding
common shares of the Company are changed into, or exchanged for, property
(including cash) other than solely stock of the Company or securities of
another corporation (disregarding, for this purpose, cash paid in lieu of
fractional shares) and which constitutes a Change in Control, each participant
may elect to receive, immediately following such Transaction in exchange for
cancellation of any stock option (other than an Incentive Stock Option granted
prior to June 20, 2003), Stock Appreciation Right or Limited Appreciation
Right held by such participant immediately prior to the Transaction, a cash
payment, with respect to each common share subject to such option or right,
equal to the difference between the value of consideration (as determined by
the Committee) received by the shareholders for a common share of the Company
in the Transaction, less any applicable purchase price.  

(d)                                     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Program or the
Prior Programs including the terms of any Benefit granted hereunder, upon the
occurrence of a Change in Control:  

(i)                                         All stock options then outstanding under this Program or the
Prior Programs shall become fully exercisable as of the date of the Change in
Control, whether or not then otherwise exercisable;  

(ii)                                      All Stock Appreciation Rights and Limited Stock Appreciation
Rights then outstanding shall become fully exercisable as of the date of the
Change in Control, whether or not then otherwise exercisable;  

(iii)                                   All terms and conditions of all Restricted Stock Awards then
outstanding shall be deemed satisfied as of the date of the Change in Control;  

(iv)                                  All terms and conditions of all Restricted Stock Units then
outstanding shall be deemed satisfied and all restrictions on those Restricted
Stock Units will lapse as of the date of the Change in Control; and  

(v)                                     All Performance Awards then outstanding shall be deemed to
have been fully earned and to be immediately payable, in cash, as of the date
of the Change in Control.  

15  

Notwithstanding the
foregoing, with respect to each Benefit that is subject to Code Section 409A,
if a Change in Control would have occurred under the Program but such Change in
Control does not also qualify as a  change in control event  (within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)), then each such
Benefit shall become vested and non-forfeitable; provided, however, that the
holder of such Benefit shall not be able to exercise the Benefit, and the
Benefit shall not become payable, except in accordance with the terms of such
Benefit or until such earlier time as the exercise and/or payment complies with
Code Section 409A.  

23.           AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.  The Board of Directors may amend the Program
from time to time or terminate the Program at any time, but no such action
shall reduce the then existing amount of any participant s Benefit or adversely
change the terms and conditions thereof without the participant s consent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as provided in paragraph 22, the Company
shall neither lower the purchase price of any option granted under the Program
nor grant any option under the Program in replacement of a cancelled option
which had previously been granted at a higher purchase price, without
shareholder approval.  To the extent
required for compliance with Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, paragraph 13 of the Program may not be amended more frequently than
once every six months other than to comport with changes in the Code or the rules thereunder,
and no amendment of the Program shall result in any Committee member losing his
or her status as a  disinterested person  as defined in Rule 16b-3 of the
Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any employee benefit plan of
the Company or result in the Program or awards thereunder losing their exempt
status under said Rule 16b-3.  

24.           EFFECTIVE DATE.  The
Program was originally adopted by the Board of Directors on October 13,
1995.  

16  

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.34>
 10
 a2188623zex-10_34.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.34

Exhibit 10.34   

AGREEMENT REGARDING   

   CHANGE IN CONTROL   

THIS AGREEMENT ( Agreement ), is made and
entered into as of [               ],
2008 (the  Effective Date ) by and between Abbott Laboratories (the  Company )
and
                            
(the  Executive;  

WITNESSETH THAT:   

WHEREAS, the Company considers it essential
to the best interests of its shareholders to foster the continuous employment
of key management personnel, and the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board )
recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, a change
in control might occur and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and
questions which it may raise among management, may result in the departure or
distraction of management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its
shareholders; and  

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that
appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued
attention and dedication of members of the Company s management, including the
Executive, to their assigned duties without distraction in the face of
potentially disturbing circumstances arising from the possibility of a change
in control of the Company;  

NOW, THEREFORE, to induce the Executive to
remain in the employ of the Company and in consideration of the premises and
mutual covenants set forth herein, IT IS HEREBY AGREED by and between the
parties as follows:  

1.                       AGREEMENT
TERM. The initial  Agreement Term  shall begin on the Effective Date and shall
continue through December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, and as
of each December 31 thereafter, the Agreement Term shall extend
automatically to the third anniversary thereof unless the Company gives notice
to the Executive prior to the date of such extension that the Agreement Term
will not be extended. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change in Control (as
defined in Section 7 below) occurs during the Agreement Term, the
Agreement Term shall continue through and terminate on the second anniversary
of the date on which the Change in Control occurs. 

2.                       ENTITLEMENT TO
CHANGE IN CONTROL BENEFITS. The Executive shall be entitled to the Change in
Control Benefits described in Section 3 hereof if the Executive s
employment by the Company is terminated during the Agreement Term but after a
Change in Control (i) by the Company for any reason other than Permanent
Disability or Cause, or (ii) by the Executive for Good Reason [or (iii) by
the Executive for any reason during the 30-day period commencing on the first
date which is six months after the date of the Change in Control].  For purposes of this Agreement: 

(a)                                      A termination of the Executive s
employment shall be treated as a termination by reason of  Permanent Disability 
only if, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment
that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a   

1  

continuous period of
not less than twelve months, the Executive is unable to engage in any
substantial gainful activity or is receiving income replacement benefits under
an accident and health plan provided by the Company for a period of not less
than three months.  

(b)                                     The term  Cause  shall mean the
willful engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which
is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company. For purposes of this
Agreement, no act, or failure to act, on the Executive s part shall be deemed  willful 
unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive not in good faith and
without reasonable belief that the Executive s action or omission was in the
best interest of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive
shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until the
Company delivers to the Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the
affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of
the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after
reasonable notice to the Executive and an opportunity for the Executive,
together with counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that, in the good
faith opinion of the Board, the Executive was guilty of conduct set forth above
and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

(c)                                      The term  Good Reason  shall mean
the occurrence of any of the following circumstances without the Executive s
express written consent:  

(i)                a significant adverse change in the nature, scope or
status of the Executive s position, authorities or duties from those in effect
immediately prior to the Change in Control, including, without limitation, if
the Executive was, immediately prior to the Change in Control, an executive officer of a public company,
the Executive ceasing to be an executive
officer of a public company;  

(ii)               the failure by the Company to pay the Executive any
portion of the Executive s current compensation, or to pay the Executive any
portion of any installment of deferred compensation under any deferred
compensation program of the Company, within seven (7) days of the date
such compensation is due;  

(iii)              a reduction in the Executive s annual base salary (or
a material change in the frequency of payment) as in effect immediately prior
to the Change in Control as the same may be increased from time to time;  

2  

(iv)              the failure by the Company to award the Executive an
annual bonus in any year which is at least equal to the annual bonus, awarded
to the Executive under the annual bonus plan of the Company for the year
immediately preceding the year of the Change in Control;  

(v)               the failure by the Company to award the Executive
equity-based incentive compensation (such as stock options, shares of
restricted stock, or other equity-based compensation) on a periodic basis
consistent with the Company s practices with respect to timing, value and terms
prior to the Change in Control;  

(vi)              the failure by the Company to continue to provide the
Executive with the welfare benefits, fringe benefits and perquisites enjoyed by
the Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control under any of the
Company s plans or policies, including, but not limited to, those plans and
policies providing pension, life insurance, medical, health and accident,
disability, vacation, executive automobile, executive tax or financial advice
benefits or club dues;  

(vii)             the relocation of the Company s principal executive
offices to a location more than thirty-five miles from the location of such
offices immediately prior to the Change in Control or the Company requiring the
Executive to be based anywhere other than the location where the Executive
primarily performs services for the Company immediately prior to the Change in
Control except for required travel to the Company s business to an extent
substantially consistent with the Executive s business travel obligations
immediately prior to the Change in Control; or  

(viii)            the failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory
agreement from any successor to the Company to assume and agree to perform this
Agreement as contemplated by Section 16.  

For purposes of any determination regarding
the existence of Good Reason, any good faith determination by the Executive
that Good Reason exists shall be conclusive.  

3.                       CHANGE IN
CONTROL BENEFITS.  In the event of a
termination of employment entitling the Executive to benefits in accordance
with Section 2, the Executive shall receive the following: 

3  

(a)                                      The Executive shall be entitled to
receive the following employee welfare benefits: medical, accident, dental,
prescription, and life insurance coverage for the Executive (and, where
applicable under the Company s welfare benefit plans, the Executive s family)
through the second anniversary of the Executive s date of termination of employment,
or, if earlier, the date on which the Executive becomes employed by another
employer. The benefits provided by the Company shall be no less favorable in
terms of coverage and cost to the Executive than those provided under the
Company s welfare benefit plans applicable to the Executive (and, where
applicable, the Executive s family) prior to the Change in Control, determined
as if the Executive remained in the employ of the Company through such second
anniversary. For purposes of determining eligibility of the Executive for
retiree welfare benefits, the Executive shall be considered to have remained in
the employ of the Company through such second anniversary.  

(b)                                     If the Executive s date of
termination occurs after the end of a performance period applicable to an
annual incentive (bonus) award, and prior to the payment of the award for the
period, the Executive shall be entitled to a lump sum payment in cash no later
than twenty (20) business days after the date of termination equal to the
greatest of (i) the Executive s annual incentive (bonus) award for that
period, as determined under the terms of that incentive award arrangement, (ii) the
Executive s annual incentive (bonus) award for that period, with the
determination of the amount of such award based on an assumption that the
target level of performance had been achieved or (iii) the Executive s
average annual incentive (bonus) award for the three annual performance periods
preceding that period (provided that if the Executive was not a participant in
the incentive award arrangement for any of those three prior years, the
averaging period shall be reduced from three years to the number of years
during the three year period in which the Executive was a participant; and
further provided that if the Executive s award for any such year was reduced
because the Executive was not a participant for the full year, such amount
shall be annualized for purposes of the computation in this clause (iii)).  

(c)                                      For any annual incentive (bonus)
plan or arrangement in which the Executive participates for the performance
period in which the Executive s termination of employment occurs, the Executive
shall be entitled to a lump sum payment in cash no later than twenty (20)
business days after the date of termination equal to the greater of (i) the
Executive s annual incentive (bonus) award for the performance period that
includes the date of termination, with the determination of the amount of such
award based on an assumption that the target level of performance has been
achieved or (ii) the   

4  

Executive s average
annual incentive (bonus) award for the three annual performance periods
preceding the performance period that includes the date of termination
(provided that if the Executive was not a participant in the incentive award
arrangement for any of those three prior years, the averaging period shall be
reduced from three years to the number of years during the three year period in
which the Executive was a participant; and further provided that if the
Executive s award for any such year was reduced because the Executive was not a
participant for the full year, such amount shall be annualized for purposes of
the computation in this clause (ii)); provided that such payment shall be
subject to a pro-rata reduction to reflect the number of days in the
performance period following the date of termination. The amount payable under
this Section 3(c) shall be in lieu of any amounts that may otherwise
be due to the Executive with respect to any annual incentive (bonus) plan or
arrangement in which the Executive participates for the performance period in
which the Executive s date of termination occurs.  

(d)                                     The Executive shall be entitled to a
lump sum payment in cash no later than twenty (20) business days after the
Executive s date of termination equal to the sum of:  

(i)                                         an amount equal to three times the
Executive s annual salary rate in effect on the date of the Change in Control
or, or if greater, as in effect immediately prior to the date of termination;
plus  

(ii)                                      an amount equal to three times the
greater of (x) the Executive s annual incentive (bonus) award for the
performance period that includes the date of the Executive s termination of
employment, with the determination of the amount of such award based on an
assumption that the target level of performance has been achieved or (y) the
Executive s average annual incentive (bonus) award for the three annual
performance periods preceding the performance period that includes the date of
termination (provided that if the Executive was not a participant in the
incentive award arrangement for any of those three prior years, the averaging
period shall be reduced from three years to the number of years during the
three year period in which the Executive was a participant; and further
provided that if the Executive s award for any such year was reduced because
the Executive was not a participant for the full year, such amount shall be
annualized for purposes of the computation in this subsection (ii)); plus  

5  

(iii)              the lump sum present value of the difference between
the Enhanced Supplemental Plan Benefits (as defined below) and the total
benefit to which the Executive is then entitled under the Abbott Laboratories
Supplemental Pension Plan (the  Supplemental Plan ). The Enhanced Supplemental
Plan Benefits shall mean the benefits under the Supplemental Plan determined as
if the Executive had been credited for benefit accrual purposes with two
additional years of service and two additional years of eligible earnings at
the higher of the Executive s eligible earnings on the date of termination or
the Executive s eligible earnings on the date of the Change in Control and, for
purposes of determining the Executive s eligibility for subsidized early
retirement benefits, determined as if the Executive were two years older than
the Executive s actual age on the date of termination. For purposes of the
determination of the Enhanced Supplemental Plan Benefits,  eligible earnings 
shall include salary, annual incentive (bonus) awards and all other forms of
compensation used to calculate benefits under the Supplemental Plan. The
amounts of the annual incentive (bonus) awards shall be calculated, to the
extent applicable, in accordance with Sections 3(b) and 3(c) above.
The Enhanced Supplemental Plan Benefits shall be determined without regard to
any termination or amendment (including any amendment affecting actuarial
factors) of such plan or of any other plan, which is adopted on or after a
Change in Control or in contemplation of a Change in Control and shall be paid
in accordance with the terms of that plan and the Executive s elections under
that plan.  

The amounts payable under Sections 3(d)(i) and
3(d)(ii) shall be inclusive of the amounts, if any, to which the Executive
would otherwise be entitled as severance or notice pay under any severance pay
plan, or by law and shall be in addition to (and not inclusive of) any amount
payable under any written agreement(s) directly between the Executive and
the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  

(e)                                      If the Executive has previously made
a timely election with respect to bonuses payable under the 1986 Abbott
Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, the 1998 Abbott Laboratories
Performance Incentive Plan, or any successor plans thereto, all or any portion
of the amounts payable under Sections 3(b) and 3(c) (less applicable
tax withholding) shall be paid directly to a grantor trust established by the
Executive to the same extent as and   

6  

pursuant to such
election no later than twenty (20) business days after the Executive s date of
termination.  

(f)                                        The Company shall provide the
Executive with outplacement services and tax and financial counseling suitable
to the Executive s position through the second anniversary of the date of the
Executive s termination of employment, or, if earlier, the date on which the
Executive becomes employed by another employer.  

If the Executive is a participant in the 1998
Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan or any successor thereto, the
Executive s annual incentive (bonus) award for the performance period which
includes the date of termination under Sections 3(c) and 3(d)(ii) above
and, if applicable, for the period preceding the date of termination under Section 3(b) shall,
be determined under the bonus levels communicated in writing to the Executive
by the Company for such year and shall not be the Executive s individual base
award allocation as defined in Section 4.2 of the 1998 Abbott Laboratories
Performance Incentive Plan (or any corresponding provision of any successor
plan).  

4.                       MITIGATION.
The Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment
provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise. Except
as set forth in Section 3(a) with respect to benefits, the Company
shall not be entitled to set off against the amounts payable to the Executive
under this Agreement any amounts owed to the Company by the Executive, any
amounts earned by the Executive in other employment after the Executive s
termination of employment with the Company, or any amounts which might have
been earned by the Executive in other employment had the Executive sought such
other employment. 

5.                       MAKE-WHOLE
PAYMENTS. If any payment or benefit to which the Executive (or any person on
account of the Executive) is entitled, whether under this Agreement or
otherwise, in connection with a Change in Control or the Executive s
termination of employment (a  Payment ) constitutes a  parachute payment 
within the meaning of section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  Code ), and as a result thereof the Executive is subject to a tax
under Code Section 4999, or any successor thereto, (an  Excise Tax ), the
Company shall pay to the Executive an additional amount (the  Make-Whole Amount )
which is intended to make the Executive whole for such Excise Tax. The
Make-Whole Amount shall be equal to (i) the amount of the Excise Tax, plus
(ii) the aggregate amount of any interest, penalties, fines or additions
to any tax which are imposed in connection with the imposition of such Excise
Tax, plus (iii) all income, excise and other applicable taxes imposed on the
Executive under the laws of any Federal, state or local government or taxing
authority by reason of the payments required under clauses (i) and (ii) and
this clause (iii). 

(a)                                      For purposes of determining the
Make-Whole Amount, the Executive shall be deemed to be taxed at the highest
marginal rate under all applicable local, state, federal and foreign income tax
laws for the year in which the Make-Whole Amount is paid.  The Make-Whole Amount payable with respect to
an Excise Tax shall   

7  

be paid by the
Company coincident with the Payment with respect to which the Excise Tax
relates.  

(b)                                     All calculations under this Section 5
shall be made initially by the Company and the Company shall provide prompt
written notice thereof to the Executive to enable the Executive to timely file
all applicable tax returns. Upon request of the Executive, the Company shall
provide the Executive with sufficient tax and compensation data to enable the
Executive or the Executive s tax advisor to independently make the calculations
described in subsection (a) above and the Company shall reimburse the
Executive for reasonable fees and expenses incurred for any such verification.  

(c)                                      If the Executive gives written
notice to the Company of any objection to the results of the Company s
calculations within sixty (60) days of the Executive s receipt of written
notice thereof, the dispute shall be referred for determination to independent
tax counsel selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Executive
( Tax Counsel ). The Company shall pay all fees and expenses of such Tax
Counsel. Pending such determination by Tax Counsel, the Company shall pay the
Executive the Make-Whole Amount as determined by it in good faith. The Company
shall pay the Executive any additional amount determined by Tax Counsel to be
due under this Section 5 (together with interest thereon at a rate equal
to 120% of the Federal short-term rate determined under Code Section 1274(d))
promptly after such determination.  

(d)                                     The determination by Tax Counsel
shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties unless the Internal Revenue
Service, a court of competent jurisdiction, or such other duly empowered
governmental body or agency (a  Tax Authority ) determines that the Executive
owes a greater or lesser amount of Excise Tax with respect to any Payment than
the amount determined by Tax Counsel.  

(e)                                      If a Taxing Authority makes a claim
against the Executive which, if successful, would require the Company to make a
payment under this Section 5, the Executive agrees to contest the claim
with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company, on request of the Company
subject to the following conditions:  

(i)                                         The Executive shall notify the
Company of any such claim within ten (10) days of becoming aware thereof.
In the event that the Company desires the claim to be contested, it shall
promptly (but in no event more than thirty (30) days after the notice from the
Executive or such shorter time as   

8  

the Taxing Authority
may specify for responding to such claim) request the Executive to contest the
claim. The Executive shall not make any payment of any tax which is the subject
of the claim before the Executive has given the notice or during the 30-day
period thereafter unless the Executive receives written instructions from the
Company to make such payment, in which case the Executive will act promptly in
accordance with such instructions.  

(ii)               If the Company so requests, the Executive will contest
the claim by either paying the tax claimed and suing for a refund in the
appropriate court or contesting the claim in the United States Tax Court or
other appropriate court, as directed by the Company; provided, however, that the
Executive shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement from the Company of any
amount paid at the Company s request by the Executive to contest the claim that
the applicable court ultimately determines to be an Excise Tax. If directed by
the Company in writing the Executive will take all action necessary to
compromise or settle the claim, but in no event will the Executive compromise
or settle the claim or cease to contest the claim without the written consent
of the Company; provided, however, that the Executive may take any such action
if the Executive waives in writing the Executive s right to a payment under
this Section 5 for any amounts payable in connection with such claim. The
Executive agrees to cooperate in good faith with the Company in contesting the
claim and to comply with any reasonable request from the Company concerning the
contest of the claim, including the pursuit of administrative remedies, the
appropriate forum for any judicial proceedings, and the legal basis for
contesting the claim. Upon request of the Company, the Executive shall take
appropriate appeals of any judgment or decision that would require the Company
to make a payment under this Section 5. Provided that the Executive is in
compliance with the provisions of this section, the Company shall be liable for
and indemnify the Executive against any loss in connection with, and all costs
and expenses, including attorneys  fees, which may be incurred as a result of,
contesting the claim, and shall provide to the Executive within thirty (30)
days after each written request therefor by the Executive reimbursement for all
such costs and expenses actually incurred by the Executive as a result of
contesting the claim.  

(f)                                        Should a Tax Authority finally
determine that an additional Excise Tax is owed, then the Company shall pay an
additional   

9  

Make-Whole Amount to
the Executive in a manner consistent with this Section 5 with respect to
any additional Excise Tax and any assessed interest, fines, or penalties. If
any Excise Tax as calculated by the Company or Tax Counsel, as the case may be,
is finally determined by a Tax Authority to exceed the amount required to be
paid under applicable law, then the Executive shall repay such excess to the Company
within thirty (30) days of such determination; provided that such repayment
shall be reduced by the amount of any taxes paid by the Executive on such
excess which is not offset by the tax benefit attributable to the repayment.  

6.                       TERMINATION
DURING POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL. If a Potential Change in Control (as
defined in Section 8) occurs during the Agreement Term, and the Company
terminates the Executive s employment for reasons other than Permanent
Disability or Cause during such Potential Change in Control, the Executive
shall be entitled to receive the benefits that the Executive would have
received under Section 3, such benefits to be calculated based upon the
Executive s compensation prior to the actual termination of employment but paid
within twenty (20) business days of the date of such termination; provided,
however, that if the Executive is then a  covered employee  as defined under
Code Section 162(m), with respect to (i) any annual incentive (bonus)
award under Section 3(b) and (ii) any annual incentive (bonus)
award under Section 3(c), (a) the Executive shall be entitled to
receive such annual incentive (bonus) awards only based on achievement of the
applicable performance goals, as determined by the terms of the applicable
incentive award arrangement and (b) upon the occurrence of a Change in
Control that (1) qualifies as a  change in control event  (within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)) and (2) results
from the consummation of the Potential Change in Control in connection with
which the Executive was terminated, the Executive shall also be entitled to
receive the excess of (x) the annual incentive (bonus) awards that the
Executive would have received under Sections 3(b) and (c) over (y) the
amount paid to the Executive under clause 6(a) above, which awards shall
be paid to the Executive within twenty (20) business days of the date of the
occurrence of such Change in Control. 

7.                       CHANGE IN
CONTROL. For purposes of this Agreement, a  Change in Control  shall be deemed
to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates: 

(a)                                      the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more
of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities,
excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a
transaction described in clause (i) of Section 7(c) below; or  

(b)                                     the date on which the following
individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of
directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the
Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of   

10  

office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not
limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the
Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election
by the Company s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors
on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election
was previously so approved or recommended; or  

(c)                                      the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other
than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which
the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at
least a majority of the board of directors of the Company, the entity surviving
such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such
merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior
to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting
power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent
thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a
merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company
(or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner,
directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the
securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly
from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined
voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or  

(d)                                     the date on which the shareholders
of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the
Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale
or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s
assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of which are owned by shareholders of the Company, in combination
with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the   

11  

Company, in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately
prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in
Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of
any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following
which the record holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior
to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or
series of transactions.  

For purposes of this Agreement:  Affiliate 
shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding
securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a
corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company
in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the
Company.  

8.                       POTENTIAL
CHANGE IN CONTROL. A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any
period in which the circumstances described in Sections (a), (b), (c) or
(d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall
cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control): 

(a)                                      The Company enters into an
agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change
in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this Section 8(a) shall
cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements;  

(b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this Section 8(b) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination
by the Board that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be
consummated;  

12  

(c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or
more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or
the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates);  

(d)                                     The Board adopts a resolution to the
effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control
exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this Section 8(d) shall
cease to exist upon a determination by the Board that the reasons that gave
rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in
Control have expired or no longer exist.  

9.                       STOCK AND
OPTION AWARDS. With respect to any award granted to the Executive under the
Company s 1996 Incentive Stock Program (the  Program ), any Prior Program (as
defined in the Program) or any successor program, the following shall apply: 

(a)                                      if the award (other than incentive
stock options granted pursuant to Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code
(each an  Incentive Stock Option ) prior to January 1, 2000) includes a
provision substantially similar to the provision contained in the first
paragraph in Appendix A, then after a Change in Control no forfeiture shall be
effected pursuant to such provision unless the Executive shall have been
terminated for  Cause  within the meaning of Section 2(b) above;  

(b)                                     if the award (other than an
Incentive Stock Option granted prior to November 7, 2008) includes a
provision substantially similar to the provision contained in the second
paragraph in Appendix A, then after a Change in Control no forfeiture shall be
effected pursuant to such provision unless the Executive shall have been
terminated for  Cause  within the meaning of Section 2(b) above; and  

(c)                                      if the Executive becomes entitled to
Change in Control Benefits under Section 2 above, then in determining the
Executive s rights with respect to that award, other than Incentive Stock
Options granted prior to December 8, 2000, the Executive shall be treated
as having incurred a termination of employment due to retirement.  

10.                 WITHHOLDING. All
payments to the Executive under this Agreement will be subject to withholding
of applicable taxes. The Company shall withhold the applicable taxes in an
amount calculated at the minimum statutory rate and shall pay the amount so
withheld to the appropriate tax authority. 

13  

11.                 SECTION 409A.  To the extent
applicable, it is intended that the Agreement be in accordance with the
provisions of Code Section 409A.   The Agreement will be administered and
interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that
would cause the Agreement to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have
no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be
retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, for all purposes of this Agreement, the Executive shall not be
deemed to have had a termination of employment unless the Executive has
incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and,
to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under
Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of
the amounts payable under the Agreement that would otherwise be payable during
the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the
first business day after the expiration of such six-month period[, plus
interest thereon, at a rate equal to the applicable  Federal short-term rate 
(as defined in Code Section 1274(d)) for the month in which such date of
termination occurs, from the respective dates on which such amounts would
otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment].  In addition, for purposes of the Agreement,
each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a
separate, identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  With respect to expenses eligible for
reimbursement under the terms of this Agreement, (i) the amount of such
expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect the
expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (ii) any
reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were
incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement
does not provide for a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  With respect to any Make-Whole Amounts (as
defined in Section 5) to which the Executive becomes entitled under the
terms of this Agreement, the payment of such Make-Whole Amounts shall be made
by the Company no later than the end of the calendar year following the
calendar year in which the Executive remits the related Excise Tax. 

12.                 NONALIENATION. The
interests of the Executive under this Agreement are not subject in any manner
to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance,
attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Executive or the Executive s
beneficiary. 

13.                 AMENDMENT. This
Agreement may be amended or canceled only by mutual agreement of the parties in
writing without the consent of any other person. So long as the Executive
lives, no person, other than the parties hereto, shall have any rights under or
interest in this Agreement or the subject matter hereof. 

14.                 APPLICABLE LAW. The
provisions of this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of Illinois, without regard to the conflict of law provisions of any
state. 

15.                 SEVERABILITY. The
invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not
affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement,
and this Agreement will be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable
provision were omitted (but only to the extent that such provision cannot be
appropriately reformed or modified). 

14  

16.                 WAIVER OF BREACH. No
waiver by any party hereto of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by
any other party, or of compliance with any condition or provision of this
Agreement to be performed by such other party, will operate or be construed as
a waiver of any subsequent breach by such other party of any similar or
dissimilar provisions and conditions at the same or any prior or subsequent
time. The failure of any party hereto to take any action by reason of such
breach will not deprive such party of the right to take action at any time
while such breach continues. 

17.                 SUCCESSORS,
ASSUMPTION OF CONTRACT. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of the Company and any successor of the Company. The Company will
require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger,
consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or
assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement
in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to
perform it if no succession had taken place. This Agreement is personal to the
Executive and may not be assigned by the Executive without the written consent
of the Company. However, to the extent that rights or benefits under this
Agreement otherwise survive the Executive s death, the Executive s heirs and
estate shall succeed to such rights and benefits pursuant to the Executive s
will or the laws of descent and distribution; provided that the Executive shall
have the right at any time and from time to time, by notice delivered to the
Company, to designate or to change the beneficiary or beneficiaries with
respect to such benefits. 

18.                 NOTICES. Notices and
all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, postage prepaid (provided that international mail shall be
sent via overnight or two-day delivery), or sent by facsimile or prepaid
overnight courier to the parties at the addresses set forth below. Such
notices, demands, claims and other communications shall be deemed given: 

(a)                                      in the case of delivery by overnight
service with guaranteed next day delivery, the next day or the day designated
for delivery;  

(b)                                     in the case of certified or
registered U.S. mail, five (5) days after deposit in the U.S. mail; or  

(c)                                      in the case of facsimile, the date
upon which the transmitting party received confirmation of receipt by
facsimile, telephone or otherwise;  

provided, however, that in no event shall any
such communications be deemed to be given later than the date they are actually
received. Communications that are to be delivered by the U.S. mail or by
overnight service or two-day delivery service are to be delivered to the
addresses set forth below:  

15  

to the Company:  

Senior Vice
President, Human Resources  

  Abbott
Laboratories  

  100 Abbott
Park Road  

  Abbott Park,
Illinois 60064  

with a copy (which shall not constitute
notice) to:  

General
Counsel and Secretary  

  Abbott
Laboratories  

  100 Abbott
Park Road  

  Abbott Park,
Illinois 60064  

or to the Executive:  

Name  

  Address  

  City, State
Zip  

Each party, by written notice furnished to
the other party, may modify the applicable delivery address, except that notice
of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.  

19.                 RESOLUTION OF ALL
DISPUTES. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement
(or the breach thereof) (a  Dispute ) shall be settled by alternative dispute
resolution procedures in accordance with Appendix B hereto.  During the pendency of any Dispute, the
Company shall continue to pay the Executive the full compensation in effect
when the notice giving rise to the Dispute was given (including, but not
limited to, salary) and continue the Executive (and, where applicable, the
Executive s family) as a participant in all compensation, benefit and insurance
plans in which the Executive was participating when the notice giving rise to
the Dispute was given, until such Dispute is resolved. 

20.                 LEGAL AND
ENFORCEMENT COSTS. The provisions of this Section 20 shall apply if it
becomes necessary or desirable for the Executive to retain legal counsel or
incur other costs and expenses in connection with enforcing any and all rights
under this Agreement or any other compensation plan maintained by the Company,
including, but not limited to, the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation
Plan, the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, the 1998 Abbott
Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan, the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental
Plan, the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, the 1986 Abbott
Laboratories Management Incentive Plan or, in each case, any trust adopted
pursuant thereto: 

(a)                                      The Executive shall be entitled to
recover from the Company reasonable attorneys  fees, costs and expenses
incurred in connection with such enforcement or defense.  

(b)                                     Payments required under this Section 20
shall be made by the Company to the Executive (or directly to the Executive s
attorney) as such attorney s fees, costs, and expenses are incurred, upon the   

16  

Executive s prompt
submission to the Company of appropriate documentation evidencing the
incurrence of such attorneys  fees, costs, and expenses.  

(c)                                      The Executive shall be entitled to
select legal counsel; provided, however, that such right of selection shall not
affect the requirement that any costs and expenses reimbursable under this Section 20
be reasonable.  

(d)                                     The Executive s rights to payments
under this Section 20 shall not be affected by the final outcome of any
dispute with the Company.  

21.                 SURVIVAL OF
AGREEMENT. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the rights
and obligations of the parties to this Agreement shall survive the termination
of the Executive s employment with the Company. 

22.                 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties concerning the subject matter hereof and
supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, between the parties
relating to the subject matter hereof; provided, however, that nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed to limit any policy or agreement that is otherwise
applicable relating to confidentiality, rights to inventions, copyrightable
material, business and/or technical information, trade secrets, solicitation of
employees, interference with relationships with other businesses, competition,
and other similar policies or agreement for the protection of the business and
operations of the Company and the subsidiaries. 

23.                 COUNTERPARTS. This
Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, any one of which shall
be deemed the original without reference to the others. 

17  

IN WITNESS THEREOF, the Executive has
hereunto set his hand, and the Company has caused these presents to be executed
in its name and on its behalf, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed on
this          day of                       ,
2008, all as of the Effective Date.  

EXECUTIVE  

ABBOTT
  LABORATORIES  

By  

Its  

ATTEST:  

(Seal)  

18  

APPENDIX A   

AGREEMENT REGARDING
CHANGE IN CONTROL   

   FORFEITURE PROVISION
REFERENCED IN SECTION 9   

Notwithstanding paragraphs (x*), (y*) and
(z*), these options (this restricted stock award, etc.) shall immediately
terminate (be forfeited), if in the sole opinion and discretion of the
Compensation Committee or its delegate, the employee (a) engages in a
material breach of the company s Code of Business Conduct; (b) commits an
act of fraud, embezzlement or theft in connection with the employee s duties or
in the course of employment; or (c) wrongfully discloses secret processes
or confidential information of the company or its subsidiaries.  

Notwithstanding paragraphs (x*), (y*) and
(z*), these options shall immediately terminate in the event the employee
engages directly or indirectly, for the benefit of the employee or others, in
any activity, employment or business during employment or within twelve (12)
months after the date of termination or retirement which, in the sole opinion
and discretion of the compensation committee or its delegate, is competitive
with the company or any of its subsidiaries.  

*                                            Provisions
contained in the agreements pertaining to nonforfeiture for death, disability,
etc. 

19  

APPENDIX B   

AGREEMENT REGARDING
CHANGE IN CONTROL   

   ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE
RESOLUTION PROCEDURES   

The parties to the Agreement Regarding Change
in Control dated as of the 7  th  day of November, 2008 (the  Agreement )
recognize that a bona fide dispute as to certain matters may arise from time to
time during the term of the Agreement which relates to either party s rights
and/or obligations. To have such a dispute resolved by this Alternative Dispute
Resolution ( ADR ) provision, a party first must send written notice of the
dispute to the other party for attempted resolution by good faith negotiations
between the Executive and the Company within twenty-eight (28) days after such
notice is received (all references to  days  in the ADR provision are to
calendar days). 

If the matter has not been resolved within
twenty-eight (28) days of the notice of dispute, or if the parties fail to meet
within such twenty-eight (28) days, either party may initiate an ADR proceeding
as provided herein. The parties shall have the right to be represented by
counsel in such a proceeding.  

1.                       To begin an
ADR proceeding, a party shall provide written notice to the other party of the
issues to be resolved by ADR. Within fourteen (14) days after its receipt of
such notice, the other party may, by written notice to the party initiating the
ADR, add additional issues to be resolved within the same ADR. 

2.                       Within
twenty-one (21) days following receipt of the original ADR notice, the parties
shall select a mutually acceptable neutral to preside in the resolution of any
disputes in this ADR proceeding. If the parties are unable to agree on a
mutually acceptable neutral within such period, either party may request the
President of the CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution ( CPR ), 366 Madison
Avenue, 14th Floor, New York, New York 10017, to select a neutral pursuant to
the following procedures: 

(a)                                      The CPR shall submit to the parties
a list of not less than five (5) candidates within fourteen (14) days
after receipt of the request, along with a  Curriculum Vitae 
for each candidate. No candidate shall be an employee, director or shareholder
of either party or any of their subsidiaries or affiliates.  

(b)                                     Such list shall include a statement
of disclosure by each candidate of any circumstances likely to affect his or
her impartiality.  

(c)                                      Each party shall number the
candidates in order of preference (with the number one (1) signifying the
greatest preference) and shall deliver the list to the CPR within seven (7) days
following receipt of the list of candidates. If a party believes a conflict of
interest exists regarding any of the candidates, that party shall provide a
written explanation of the conflict to the CPR along with its list showing its
order of preference for the candidates. Any party   

20  

failing to return a
list of preferences on time shall be deemed to have no order of preference.  

(d)                                     If the parties collectively have
identified fewer than three (3) candidates deemed to have conflicts, the
CPR immediately shall designate as the neutral the candidate for whom the
parties collectively have indicated the greatest preference. If a tie should
result between two candidates, the CPR may designate either candidate. If the
parties collectively have identified three (3) or more candidates deemed
to have conflicts, the CPR shall review the explanations regarding conflicts
and, in its sole discretion, may either (i) immediately designate as the
neutral the candidate for whom the parties collectively have indicated the
greatest preference, or (ii) issue a new list of not less than five (5) candidates,
in which case the procedures set forth in subsections 2(a)-2(d) shall be
repeated.  

3.                       No earlier
than twenty-eight (28) days or later than fifty-six (56) days after selection,
the neutral shall hold a hearing to resolve each of the issues identified by the
parties. The ADR proceeding shall take place at a location agreed upon by the
parties. If the parties cannot agree, the neutral shall designate a location
other than the principal place of business of either party or any of the
subsidiaries or affiliates. 

4.                       At least seven
(7) days prior to the hearing, each party shall submit the following to
the other party and the neutral: 

(a)                                      a copy of all exhibits on which such
party intends to rely in any oral or written presentation to the neutral;  

(b)                                     a list of any witnesses such party
intends to call at the hearing, and a short summary of the anticipated
testimony of each witness;  

(c)                                      a proposed ruling on each issue to
be resolved, together with a request for a specific damage award or other
remedy for each issue. The proposed rulings and remedies shall not contain any
recitation of the facts or any legal arguments and shall not exceed one (1) page per
issue.  

(d)                                     a brief in support of such party s
proposed rulings and remedies, provided that the brief shall not exceed twenty
(20) pages. This page limitation shall apply regardless of the number of
issues raised in the ADR proceeding. Except as expressly set forth in
subsections 4(a) - 4(d), no discovery shall be required or permitted by
any means, including deposition, interrogatories, requests for admissions or
production of documents.  

5.                       The hearing
shall be conducted on two (2) consecutive days and shall be governed by
the following rules: 

21  

(a)                                      Each party shall be entitled to five
(5) hours of hearing time to present its case. The neutral shall determine
whether each party has had the five (5) hours to which it is entitled.  

(b)                                     Each party shall be entitled, but
not required, to make an opening statement, to present regular or rebuttal
testimony, documents or other evidence, to cross-examine witnesses and to make
a closing argument. Cross-examination of witnesses shall occur immediately
after their direct testimony, and cross-examination time shall be charged against
the party conducting the cross-examination.  

(c)                                      The party initiating the ADR shall
begin the hearing and, if it chooses to make an opening statement, shall
address not only issues it raised, but also any issues raised by the responding
party. The responding party, if it chooses to make an opening statement, also
shall address all issues raised in the ADR. Thereafter, the presentation of
regular and rebuttal testimony and documents, other evidence and closing
arguments shall proceed in the same sequence.  

(d)                                     Except when testifying, witnesses
shall be excluded from the hearing until closing arguments.  

(e)                                      Settlement negotiations, including
any statements made therein, shall not be admissible under any circumstances.
Affidavits prepared for purposes of the ADR hearing also shall not be
admissible. As to all other matters, the neutral shall have sole discretion
regarding the admissibility of any evidence.  

6.                       Within seven (7) days
following completion of the hearing, each party may submit to the other party
and the neutral a post-hearing brief in support of its proposed rulings and
remedies, provided that such brief shall not contain or discuss any new
evidence and shall not exceed ten (10) pages. This page limitation
shall apply regardless of the number of issues raised in the ADR proceeding. 

7.                       The neutral
shall rule on each disputed issue within fourteen (14) days following
completion of the hearing. Such ruling shall adopt in its entirety the proposed
ruling and remedy of one of the parties on each disputed issue but may adopt
one party s proposed rulings and remedies on some issues and the other party s
proposed rulings and remedies on other issues. The neutral shall not issue any
written opinion or otherwise explain the basis of the ruling. 

8.                       The neutral
shall be paid a reasonable fee plus expenses by the Company. The Company shall
bear its own fees and expenses. The Executive s fees and expenses shall be paid
or reimbursed by the Company to the extent provided by the Agreement. 

9.                       The rulings of
the neutral and the allocation of fees and expenses shall be binding,
non-reviewable, and non-appealable, and may be entered as a final judgment in
any court having jurisdiction. 

22  

10.                 Except as provided in
Section 9 or as required by law, the existence of the dispute, any
settlement negotiations, the ADR hearing, any submissions (including exhibits,
testimony, proposed rulings, and briefs), and the rulings shall be deemed
Confidential Information. The neutral shall have the authority to impose
sanctions for unauthorized disclosure of Confidential Information. 

23  

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 11
 a2188623zex-10_35.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.35

Exhibit 10.35   

Abbott Laboratories   

Description of Base Salary of Named Executive Officers   

Set forth below are the base salaries,
effective December 31, 2008 and March 1, 2009, of the chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, Holger A. Liepmann, James L. Tyree, and
Stephen R. Fussell, all of whom were named executive officers in 2008.  

Miles
D. White  

  Chairman
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Thomas C. Freyman  

  Executive Vice President, Finance and  

  Chief Financial Officer  

Holger
A. Liepmann  

  Executive
Vice President,  

  Global
Nutrition  

James
L. Tyree  

  Executive
Vice President,  

  Pharmaceutical
Products Group  

Stephen
R. Fussell  

  Senior
Vice President,  

  Human
Resources  

</EX-10.35>

<EX-12>
 12
 a2188623zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12   

Abbott Laboratories   

   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

  (Unaudited)  

  (dollars in
millions)  

NOTE: For
the purpose of calculating this ratio, (i) earnings from continuing
operations have been calculated by adjusting earnings from continuing
operations for taxes on earnings from continuing operations; interest expense;
amortization of capitalized interest, net of capitalized interest; minority
interest; and the portion of rentals representative of the interest factor, (ii) Abbott
considers one-third of rental expense to be the amount representing return on
capital, and (iii) fixed charges comprise total interest expense,
including capitalized interest and such portion of rentals.  

1  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 13
 a2188623zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21   

SUBSIDIARIES
OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

The
following is a list of subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories.  Abbott Laboratories is not a subsidiary of
any other corporation.  Where ownership
of a subsidiary is less than 100% by Abbott Laboratories or an Abbott
Laboratories  subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of
ownership.  

Domestic Subsidiaries   

Incorporation   

Abbott Administration Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Bioresearch Center, Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Cardiovascular Systems Inc.  

California  

Abbott Cardiovascular, Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Delaware Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Diabetes Care Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Diabetes Care Sales Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Endocrine Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Endocrinology Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Equity Investments LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Exchange Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Health Products, Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Home Infusion Services of New
  York, Inc.  

New York  

Abbott International LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Investment Holdings Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Laboratories Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Laboratories International Co.  

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Pacific Ltd.  

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Purchasing Company, LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Laboratories Residential Development
  Fund, Inc.  

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Services Corp.  

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories (Puerto Rico)
  Incorporated  

Puerto Rico  

Abbott Management Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Mexico LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Molecular Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Nutrition Manufacturing Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Personnel Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Pharmaceutical Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Point of Care Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Resources Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Resources International Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Respiratory LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Trading Company, Inc.  

Virgin Islands  

Abbott Universal Ltd.  

Delaware  

Abbott Vascular Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Vascular Solutions Inc.  

Indiana  

Aeropharm Technology, LLC  

Delaware  

Aspen Acquisition I, Inc.  

Delaware  

AVI Corp.  

Delaware  

Bioabsorbable Vascular Solutions, Inc.  

Delaware  

BioDisplay Technologies, Inc.  

Illinois  

C   G Nutritionals, Inc.  

Delaware  

CMM Transportation, Inc.  

Delaware  

Gene-Trak Systems Industrial Diagnostics
  Corp.  

Delaware  

Gene-Trak, Inc.  

Delaware  

IEP Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC  

Florida  

IMTC Technologies, Inc.  

Delaware  

Integrated Vascular Systems, Inc.  

Delaware  

i-STAT Europe, Inc.  

Delaware  

IVD Instruments, LLC  

Delaware  

Knoll LLC  

Puerto Rico  

Knoll Pharmaceutical Company  

New Jersey  

Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

Delaware  

Murex Diagnostics, Inc.  

Delaware  

Natural Supplement Association,
  Incorporated  

Colorado  

North Shore Properties, Inc.  

Delaware  

PDD II, LLC  

Delaware  

PDD, LLC  

Delaware  

Pegasus One, LLC  

Delaware  

Rainforest Acquisition Inc.  

Delaware  

S   G Nutritionals Inc.  

Delaware  

Solartek Products, Inc.  

Delaware  

Swan-Myers, Incorporated  

Indiana  

Tobal Products Incorporated  

Illinois  

Vectoris Corporation  

California  

Woodside Biomedical, Inc.  

Delaware  

X Technologies Inc.  

Delaware  

ZonePerfect Nutrition Company  

Delaware  

International Subsidiaries   

Incorporation   

Abbott Laboratories Argentina S.A.  

Argentina  

Murex Argentina S.A.  

Argentina 65%  

Abbott Australasia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

EAS Australia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

Abbott Gesellschaft m.b.H.  

Austria  

Abbott Bahamas Overseas Businesses Corporation  

Bahamas  

Abbott Hospitals Limited  

Bahamas  

Abbott Laboratories (Bangladesh) Limited  

Bangladesh 85%  

Murex Diagnostics International, Inc.  

Barbados  

Abbott Belgian Investments SPRL  

Belgium  

Abbott Belgian Pension Fund A.S.B.L.  

Belgium  

Abbott S.A.  

Belgium  

Abbott Vascular International BVBA  

Belgium  

Abbott Biotechnology Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Abbott Diagnostics International, Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Abbott Ireland  

Bermuda  

Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Abbott Strategic Opportunities Limited  

Bermuda  

Abbott Laboratories do Brasil Ltda.  

Brazil  

Abbott (Cambodia) LLC  

Cambodia  

Abbott Laboratories, Limited  

Canada  

Abbott Point of Care Canada Limited  

Canada  

Experimental   Applied Sciences Canada Inc.  

Canada  

Toba Pharma Inc.  

Canada  

International Murex Technologies Corporation  

Canada  

Abbott Laboratories de Chile Limitada  

Chile  

Abbott Laboratories de Colombia, S.A.  

Colombia  

Abbott Healthcare Costa Rica, S.A.  

Costa Rica  

Abbott Laboratories limited liability company for trade and services,
  Zagreb  

Croatia  

Abbott Laboratories, s.r.o.  

Czech Republic  

Abbott Laboratories A/S  

Denmark  

Abbott Laboratorios del Ecuador Cia. Ltda.  

Ecuador  

Abbott Limited Egypt LLC  

Egypt  

Abbott, S.A. de C.V.  

El Salvador  

Abbott OY  

Finland  

Abbott France Instruments S.A.S.  

France  

Abbott France S.A.S.  

France  

Abbott Biotechnology Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Diagnostics G.m.b.H.  

Germany  

Abbott GmbH   Co. KG  

Germany  

Abbott Holding GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Management GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Vascular Instruments Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Vascular Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.  

Greece  

Abbott Grenada Limited  

Grenada  

Abbott Laboratorios, S.A.  

Guatemala  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

Hong Kong  

Abbott Laboratories (Hungary) Health Products and Medical Equipment
  Trading and Servicing Limited Liability Company  

Hungary  

Abbott Healthcare Pvt Ltd  

India  

Abbott India Limited  

India 68.94%  

Abind Healthcare Private Limited  

India  

PT. Abbott Indonesia  

Indonesia 99.99%  

Abbott Ireland Holdings Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Laboratories Vascular Enterprises Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Laboratories, Ireland, Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Mature Products International Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Mature Products Management Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Nutrition Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Products  

Ireland  

Abbott Vascular Devices Ireland Limited  

Ireland  

BiodivYsio Limited  

Ireland  

Carotid Interventional Systems Limited  

Ireland  

Mednova Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott AVI s.r.l.  

Italy  

Abbott S.r.l.  

Italy  

Abbott Vascular Knoll-Ravizza S.p.A  

Italy  

Autonomous Employee Welfare Fund for Abbott S.p.A. Dirigenti  

Italy  

Abbott West Indies Limited  

Jamaica 51%  

Abbott Japan Co., Ltd.  

Japan  

Abbott Vascular Japan Co., Ltd  

Japan  

Tofuku Shoji K.K.  

Japan  

Abbott Korea Limited  

Korea, South  

Abbott Laboratories Baltics  

Latvia  

UAB  Abbott Laboratories   

Lithuania  

Abbott Middle East (S.A.R.L.)  

Lebanon  

Abbott Laboratories (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.  

Malaysia  

Abbott Laboratories de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

Abbott Laboratories (Mozambique), Limitada  

Mozambique  

Abbott B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Biotechnology Netherlands B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Laboratories B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Logistics B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Nederland C.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott PR Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Vascular Devices Holland B.V.  

Netherlands  

EAS International B.V.  

Netherlands  

IMTC Finance B.V.  

Netherlands  

IMTC Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Laboratories NZ Limited  

New Zealand  

EAS Asia/Pacific Limited  

New Zealand  

Abbott Norge AS  

Norway  

Abbott Laboratories (Pakistan) Ltd.  

Pakistan 77.9%  

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.  

Panama  

Abbott Overseas, S.A.  

Panama  

Abbott (Guangzhou) Nutritionals Co., Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

Abbott Laboratories Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

Guidant International Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

Shanghai Abbott Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.  

People s Republic of China 75%  

Abbott Laboratorios S.A.  

Peru  

Abbott Laboratories (Philippines)  

Philippines  

Union-Madison Realty Company, Inc.  

Philippines 40%  

Abbott Laboratories Poland Sp. z o.o.  

Poland  

Abbott Laboratorios, Limitada  

Portugal  

Abbottfarma - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

Knoll - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

MediSense - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

Premier - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

Limited liability company Abbott Laboratories  

Russia  

Abbott Laboratories (Singapore) Private Limited  

Singapore  

Abbott Manufacturing Singapore Private Limited  

Singapore  

Abbott Laboratories Slovakia s.r.o.  

Slovakia  

Abbott Laboratories druzba za farmacijo in diagnostiko d.o.o.  

Slovenia  

Abbott Laboratories South Africa (Proprietary) Ltd.  

South Africa  

Experimental   Applied Sciences Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Knoll Pharmaceuticals South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Murex Biotech South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Murex Diagnostics South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Abbott Cientifica, S.A.  

Spain  

Abbott Laboratories, S.A.  

Spain  

Bioresearch Espana, S.A.  

Spain  

Liade Sociedad Anonima (S.A.)  

Spain  

Murex Diagnosticos S.A.  

Spain  

Abbott Scandinavia AB  

Sweden  

Abbott AG  

Switzerland  

Abbott Finance Company S.A.  

Switzerland  

Abbott Laboratories S.A.  

Switzerland  

Abbott Liestal AG  

Switzerland  

Knoll-Bioresearch AG  

Switzerland  

Abbott Fund Tanzania Limited  

Tanzania  

Abbott Laboratories Tanzania Limited  

Tanzania  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

Thailand  

Abbott Laboratuarlari Ithalat Ihracat Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi  

Turkey  

Abbott (UK) Finance Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott (UK) Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Asia Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Asia Investments Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Knoll Investments B.V.  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Capital India Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Diabetes Care Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Equity Holdings Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Investments Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Trustee Company Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Vascular Devices (2) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Vascular Devices Limited  

United Kingdom  

Experimental and Applied Sciences UK Limited  

United Kingdom  

IMTC Holdings (U.K.) Limited  

United Kingdom  

i-STAT Limited  

United Kingdom  

Knoll UK Investments Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Murex Biotech (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Murex Biotech Limited  

United Kingdom  

TheraSense UK Limited  

United Kingdom  

Vysis (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Uruguay S.A.  

Uruguay  

Abbott Laboratories C.A.  

Venezuela  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 14
 a2188623zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381,
333-69547, 333-93253, 333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850, 333-141118, and
333-153197 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179,
333-124851, and 333-153200 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 333-75442 and
333-109254 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685,
33-50452, 33-51585, 33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257,
333-74224, 333-102180, 333-109253, 333-124849, 333-141116, and 333-153198 on Form S-8 for the Abbott
Laboratories Stock Retirement Program and Trusts; Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 333-85867 on Form S-8 for the
Perclose, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan and Perclose, Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and
Registration Statement Nos. 333-109132, 333-132104, and 333-157290 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 19, 2009, relating to
the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries, and the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' internal control over financial reporting (which report
on the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of new accounting standards in 2007 and 2006) appearing in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

/s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 19, 2009   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 15
 a2188623zex-23_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.2            

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381,
333-69547, 333-93253, 333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850, 333-141118, and
333-153197 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179,
333-124851, and 333-153200 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 333-75442 and
333-109254 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Affiliate Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685,
33-50452, 33-51585, 33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257,
333-74224, 333-102180, 333-109253, 333-124849, 333-141116, and 333-153198 on Form S-8 for the Abbott
Laboratories Stock Retirement Program and Trusts; Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 333-85867 on Form S-8 for the
Perclose, Inc. 1992 Stock Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, Perclose, Inc. 1997 Stock Plan and Perclose, Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and
Registration Statement No. 333-109132, No. 333-132104, and No. 333-157290 on Form S-3 of our reports dated August 27,
2008, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Abbott
Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 19, 2009   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.2   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 16
 a2188623zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Miles D. White, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 20, 2009  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 17
 a2188623zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Thomas C. Freyman, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 20, 2009  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 18
 a2188623zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

    Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 20, 2009  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 19
 a2188623zex-32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

    Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Thomas C. Freyman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 20, 2009  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   

</EX-32.2>

