<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100219_10-K_edgar_data_1800_0001047469-10-001018_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5764079</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>568333</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>184985</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1800092</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1367244</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1410403</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>64</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-10-001018.hdr.sgml : 20100219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100219160552
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-10-001018
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		10619698

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8479376100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KpVBDIcVOteROJ+S/EqtJbnUkyOcsH7WcRPImUnLVBmItWRUUmVP5hgFPC2htPF9
 Ksq1mel7WPzysyoEE0ydIw==

 0001047469-10-001018.txt : 20100219

10-K
 1
 a2196380z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549   

FORM 10-K     

Abbott Laboratories     

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Shares, Without Par Value  

New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.     

   Yes                No         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

Large Accelerated Filer      
     
  Accelerated Filer      
     
  Non-accelerated Filer      
     
  Smaller Reporting Company      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     

   Yes                No         

   The aggregate market value of the 1,492,249,135 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2009), was $70,195,399,310. Abbott has no
non-voting common equity.     

   Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2010: 1,552,643,385     

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

   Portions of the 2010 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2010.     

PART I            

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND   CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS            

          Incorporated herein by reference is Note 7 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to Humira  included in "Financial Review."   

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS            

          Abbott has four reportable revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products.   

          On
February 15, 2010, Abbott completed its acquisition of the Solvay Group's pharmaceuticals business for EUR 4.5 billion (approximately $6.2 billion), in cash, plus
additional payments of up to EUR 300 million if certain sales milestones are met. This acquisition will provide Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products
and a significant presence in key global emerging markets and will add approximately $500 million to Abbott's research and development spending.   

          In
February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion in cash, net of cash held by AMO.   

*    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide and are generally
sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted
with other companies.   

          The
principal products included in the Pharmaceutical Products segment are:   

Humira , for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
and Crohn's disease;     
           TriCor , Trilipix , Simcor , and Niaspan , for the treatment of
dyslipidemia;     
           Kaletra , Aluvia , and Norvir , protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV
infection;     
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism;     
           Lupron , also marketed as Lucrin , and Lupron Depot , used for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;    
           Depakote , an agent for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder and the prevention of migraines;    
           the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane  and outside of the
United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane  and in a few other markets as Ultane ), isoflurane, and enflurane;     
           the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin , Klacid , and
Klaricid ), and various forms of the antibiotic erythromycin, sold primarily as PCE  or polymercoated erythromycin, Erythrocin , and E.E.S.     
           Zemplar , for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney
disease and Stage 5 treatment; and     
           Ogastro (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor that is marketed outside of the United States and used principally for the
short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis.    

The
Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of Abbott's brand of products by physicians. Managed care
providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal
governments and agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.   

          Competition
in the Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products
is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence in the
Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products that
are off-patent.   

  2  

Diagnostic Products     

          These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. The segment's products are generally marketed and
sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors,
depending on the market served. In January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious
disease. Including a $40 million investment in Ibis in 2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis.   

          The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:   

immunoassay systems, including ARCHITECT , AxSYM , IMx , Commander ,
Abbott PRISM , TDx , and TDxFlx      
           chemistry systems such as ARCHITECT  c4000 , c8000 , and c16000     
           assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;     
           the m2000 , an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;     
           the Vysis  product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion  HER-2 DNA
probe kit and the UroVysion  bladder cancer recurrence kit;     
           a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn  series; and    
           the i-STAT  point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.    

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
Viroseq  HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.   

    Nutritional Products     

          These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers or
third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          Principal
products in the Nutritional Products segment include:   

various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac Advance , SimilacAdvance EarlyShield , Similac , Similac  with Iron, Similac Sensitive , Similac Sensitive 
RS, Similac Go Grow , Similac  NeoSure , Similac  Organic, Similac  Special Care , Isomil  Advance ,
Isomil , Isomil Go Grow , Alimentum , Gain , and Grow     
 
  3  

adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus ,
Ensure  High Protein, Glucerna , ProSure , PediaSure , PediaSure  NutriPals , EleCare , Juven ,
Abound , and Pedialyte      
           nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity ,
Glucerna  1.2 Cal, Glucerna  1.5 Cal, Osmolite , Oxepa , and Nepro  and     
           ZonePerfect  bars and the EAS family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex  and
AdvantEdge .    

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain , Grow , PediaSure , PediaSure  NutriPals , Pedialyte , Ensure ,
ZonePerfect , EAS /Myoplex , and Glucerna  are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.   

          Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The
introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers'
products may increase competitive pressure.   

    Vascular Products     

          These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, and vessel closure devices for the treatment of vascular disease
manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. The segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United
States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. On October 30, 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in
cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of percutaneous
treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve.   

          The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:   

Xience Prime  and Xience V , drug-eluting stent systems developed on the
Multi-Link Vision  platform;     
           Multi-Link 8 , Multi-Link Vision  and Multi-Link Mini
Vision , coronary metallic stents;     
           Voyager  balloon dilatation products;     
           Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight  and Asahi coronary guidewires;     
           StarClose  and Perclose  vessel closure devices;     
           Acculink /Accunet  and Xact /Emboshield NAV 6  , carotid stent
systems; and     
           MitraClip , a percutaneous valve repair system.    

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.
Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.   

  4  

Other Products     

          The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle  product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, lasik surgery, contact lens, and dry eye products.
These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned
distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters, contact lens care products, and dry eye products
are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, and product
performance, and these products can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes. In October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million
in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating intraocular lens (IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients.   

INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL            

    Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

          Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

    Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses     

          Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents
and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which
expire during the period 2010 to 2029, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or
related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira ), are material in relation to Abbott's business as a
whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patents covering adalimumab will expire in December 2016. In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are
significant for Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products segment: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra  and Aluvia ), those related to
fenofibrate (which is sold under the trademarks TriCor  and Trilipix ), and those related to niacin (which is sold under the trademarks Niaspan  and
Simcor ). The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2016. The United States non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir
will expire in 2016. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate products will expire in 2011, 2018, 2020, 2023, and 2025. The principal United
States non-composition of matter patents covering the niacin products will expire in 2013, 2014, 2017, and 2018. Litigation related to the products listed above is discussed in Legal
Proceedings on pages 15 through 18.   

          Although
the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition
of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual
property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to
have commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent, including in some instances exclusivity.   

  5  

Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation     

          There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.   

    Research and Development     

          Abbott spent $2,743,733,000 in 2009, $2,688,811,000 in 2008, and $2,505,649,000 in 2007 on research to discover and develop new
products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

    Environmental Matters     

          Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2009 were approximately $16 million and $58 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2010
are estimated to be $8 million and $63 million, respectively.   

          Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott,
in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation
activities, Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a
material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

    Employees     

          Abbott employed approximately 73,000 persons as of December 31, 2009.   

    Regulation     

          The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, both domestic and international, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures,
clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, sampling, distribution, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these
regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions
can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions,
including fines and penalties. In addition, governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug and medical device manufacturers to pay fees, such as application, product, and establishment
fees.   

          Abbott
is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's (FDA) Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the   

  6  

Diagnostic
Products segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations were in substantial conformity with the Quality System Regulation.   

          International
operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation and country-specific rules and regulations. Many countries, directly or indirectly, through
reimbursement or pricing limitations, control the selling price of most health care products. Furthermore, many countries limit the importation of raw materials and finished products.   

Continuing
studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their components are being conducted by industry, government agencies, and others. Such
studies, which
employ increasingly sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and may in the
future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

          Access
to and the cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the
United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's
version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under
Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care
facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control
expenditures for many health care products. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for medicine delivered under Part D and must develop a competitive bid system
for durable medical equipment, enteral nutrition products, and supplies. Under federal law, manufacturers must pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription
drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans. In addition, a majority of states are seeking additional rebates. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional
discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and institutions, as well as
certain other covered entities.   

          In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). All
states are mandated to have in place a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, states obtain rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program
through competitive bidding.   

          Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2010 at all government levels over marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott
believes that if legislation is enacted, it could change access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and
services, create new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, or require additional reporting and disclosure.   

Efforts
to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost reduction and containment measures.   

          It
is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

  7  

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS            

          Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

INTERNET INFORMATION            

          Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

          Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ).   

  8  

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

          In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any
of Abbott's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business,
financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.   

   Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses,
which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.     

          Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some
of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected
benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than
originally anticipated.
Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience
negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of
long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

   The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.     

          Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to
Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's
intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is
described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings."   

          Abbott
faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes that may significantly reduce Abbott's sales for that product in a short amount of time. If Abbott's competitive position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a
material adverse effect on its revenues, margins, business, and results of operations.   

   Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability
and financial condition.     

          Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of
affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

  9  

Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.     

In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are
not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.   

   Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and
processes.     

          Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international,
supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be
granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new
indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product
labeling, and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of
Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure
compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products, and criminal
prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or
partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances
or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues,
profitability and financial condition.   

   Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices,
and restrict its operations in the future.     

          Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care
Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and
regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales
or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues,
profitability, and financial condition.   

  10  

Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's
revenue and profitability to decline.     

          To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial
efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance
that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested.   

          Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched,
whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new
indications for existing products may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

   New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more
effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of
competitors' products.   

   The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems
manufacturing products, Abbott's business could suffer.     

          The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters,
and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may
have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause,
similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the
extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.     

          All health care products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration.
Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety
issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For   

  11  

example,
Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety
issues with an Abbott product arise, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market
acceptance of Abbott's products.   

          In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott
promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Product liability losses are self-insured. Product
liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

   The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.     

          Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 50% of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:   

changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;     
           multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to
manufacture, market, and sell its products;     
           differing local product preferences and product requirements;     
           trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;     
           difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations;     
           differing labor regulations;     
           potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;     
           political and economic instability;     
           price and currency exchange controls, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation,
nationalization, and other governmental action;     
           inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and     
           compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property.    

These
risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

   Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Many other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition, including:   

Differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount.     
           Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements,
product marketing application standards, and environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions.    
 
  12  

Changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit trusts.     
           Changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to Abbott or Abbott's
employee benefit trusts.     
           Changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the
U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of
insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.    
           Changes in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to
earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.    
           Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing
decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors, and business partners.     
           Difficulties related to Abbott's information technology systems, any of which could adversely affect business operations,
including any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, or interruption of these systems.     
           Changes in credit markets impacting Abbott's ability to obtain financing for its business operations.    
           In connection with Abbott's acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses of Guidant
Corporation, Abbott loaned BSC International Holding, Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific) $900 million on a subordinated basis. As long as the loan is outstanding, Abbott
will be a creditor of Boston Scientific with respect to the $900 million loan and, as such, is subject to credit risk.     
           Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability,
including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree.    

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates,
and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify
these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to
differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a
forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to
forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.    

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

          None.   

  13  

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's
principal plants, as of December 31, 2009, are listed below.   

Location    
     
   Segments of Products Produced    

Abbott Park, Illinois  
     
  Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Alameda, California*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Altavista, Virginia  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Anasco, Puerto Rico*  
     
  Medical Devices  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
  Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Brockville, Canada  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Buenos Aires, Argentina  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Casa Grande, Arizona  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Clonmel, Ireland  
     
  Vascular Products  

Columbus, Ohio  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cootehill, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Dartford, England*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Des Plaines, Illinois  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Fairfield, California*  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Granada, Spain  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Irving, Texas  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Karachi, Pakistan  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Katsuyama, Japan  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Longford, Ireland  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Ludwigshafen, Germany  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Milpitas, California*  
     
  Medical Devices  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Redwood City, California*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Santa Clara, California  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Singapore  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Sligo, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional and Diagnostic Products  

Sturgis, Michigan  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Temecula, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Tlalpan, Mexico  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Wiesbaden, Delkenheim, Germany  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Witney, Oxon, England  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Worcester, Massachusetts  
     
  Pharmaceutical Products  

Zwolle, the Netherlands  
     
  Nutritional Products  

*    Leased
property    

In
addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in nine other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and in five other countries outside the United States.
Abbott's facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.   

          In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott owns six distribution centers. Abbott also has twenty United States
research and   

  14  

development
facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Carlsbad, California; Columbus, Ohio (two locations); Des Plaines, Illinois; Fairfield,
California; Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Milpitas, California; Mountain View, California; North Chicago, Illinois; Princeton, New Jersey; Redwood City, California; Santa Ana, California; Santa
Clara, California; South Irvine, California; Temecula, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in Canada, China, Germany,
Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.   

          Except
as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants
and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.    

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January 31, 2010) those described
below. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate resolution should not
have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except where noted below.   

A
case is pending against Abbott in which New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. assert that adalimumab (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Humira )
infringes a patent co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to Centocor. In June 2009, a jury found that Abbott had willfully infringed the patent and awarded NYU and Centocor
approximately $1.67 billion in past compensatory damages. In October 2009, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas overturned the jury's finding that Abbott's
infringement was willful, but denied Abbott's request to overturn the jury's verdict on validity, infringement, and damages. In December 2009, the district court issued a final judgment and awarded
the plaintiffs an additional $175 million in prejudgment interest. In December 2009, Centocor filed a separate action seeking enhanced damages and interest for the continuing sale of
Humira  after the jury verdict. In December 2009, Abbott filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Abbott is confident in the merits of its
case and believes that it will prevail on appeal. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the outcome of this litigation, its ultimate resolution could be material to cash flows or results
of operations.   

          As
previously reported, a case brought by the University of Iowa in June 2009 was pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Iowa alleging
that Humira  infringed two University of Iowa patents. In November 2009, the parties settled the case and it was dismissed with prejudice.   

In
response to a patent infringement action filed in December 2008 by Bayer HealthCare LLC (Bayer) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, in
January 2009 Abbott filed an action against Bayer in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts seeking a declaration that Humira  does not infringe Bayer's patent
and that Bayer's patent is invalid and unenforceable. The Massachusetts court consolidated the Texas case with the Massachusetts proceeding. Bayer seeks damages, including treble damages, but does not
seek injunctive relief. In November 2009, Bayer filed infringement actions in the Court of the Hague in the Netherlands and in the District Court in Dusseldorf, Germany, asserting that
Humira  infringes Bayer's patent and seeking damages, but not an injunction.   

          In
December 2009, Abbott, Fournier Industrie et Sante, and Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier) settled the case brought by twenty-six State Attorneys General,     State of Florida, et al.    (filed in
March 2008). Twenty-four of the twenty-six State Attorneys General are parties to the
settlement and two State Attorneys General voluntarily dismissed their claims against the defendants.   

  15  

Several
cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending against Abbott that allege generally that Abbott and
numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases,
brought by private plaintiffs, the United States Department of Justice, state Attorneys General, and other state government entities, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and
attorneys' fees. The federal court cases have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multi District
Litigation Rules as    In re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL 1456   . MDL 1456 includes: (a) a civil whistle-blower
suit brought by the United States Department of Justice, filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida in May 2006; (b) a civil whistle-blower suit brought by
Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys, Inc., unsealed against Abbott in August 2007 and in which the United States declined to intervene; (c) two state Attorneys General
suits, filed in August 2006 (   State of South Carolina)    and July 2009 (   State of Mississippi    on behalf of
its state health plan); and (d) a purported class action case in which the plaintiffs seek to certify nationwide classes of Medicare Part B consumers and third party payors and other
consumers, filed in June 2003. Eighteen named defendants, including Abbott, collectively settled this case, subject to final approval of the district court. In addition, several cases are pending
against Abbott in state courts:    Commonwealth of Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;     State of
Wisconsin   , filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;    State of Illinois   , filed in February 2005 in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois;    County of Erie   , filed in March 2005 in the Supreme Court of Erie County, New York;    State
of Mississippi   , filed in October 2005 in the Circuit Court of Rankin County, Mississippi;    State of Hawaii   , filed in April 2006
in the First Circuit Court of Hawaii;    County of Oswego   , filed in August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Oswego County, New York;     County of Schenectady   , filed
in August 2006 in the Supreme Court of Schenectady County, New York;    State of South
Carolina    (on behalf of its state health plan), filed in August 2006 in the Court of Common Pleas, Fifth Judicial Circuit of Richland County, South Carolina;     State of Alaska   ,
filed in October 2006 in the Superior Court for the Third Judicial District in Anchorage, Alaska;    State of
Idaho   , filed in January 2007 in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District in Ada County, Idaho;    State of Utah   , filed in
November 2007 in the Third Judicial District in Salt Lake County, Utah; and    State of Kansas   , filed in October 2008 in the District Court of Wyandotte
County, Kansas. In 2009, Abbott settled    State of West Virginia   , filed in October 2001 in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia, and     State of Alabama   , filed in January 2005 in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Alabama. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the
outcome of the proceedings and investigations related to pricing information for drugs reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid, their ultimate resolution could be material to cash flows or results of
operations for a quarter.   

          Four
cases are pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California that allege antitrust violations in connection with the 2003 Norvir
re-pricing: (a) a consolidated class action filed on behalf of all direct purchasers by three individual plaintiffs,     Meijer, Inc.   , filed in November 2007,    Louisiana
Wholesale Drug Company, Inc.   , filed in
December 2007, and    Rochester Drug Co-Operative, Inc.   , filed in November 2007; (b) two cases filed on behalf of director
purchaser class opt-outs,    Rite Aid, Inc.   , filed in December 2007 and     Safeway, Inc.   , filed in October 2007; and (c) one case filed by a
competitor,     GlaxoSmithKline   , filed in November 2007. All of the cases have been consolidated for discovery and trial. The plaintiffs seek damages, injunctive
relief, and costs.   

          A
class action case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the name    Myla Nauman, Jane Roller
and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc.    The plaintiffs are former Abbott employees who allege that their transfer to Hospira, Inc., as part
of the spin-off of Hospira, adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and that in their transfer, Abbott breached a fiduciary
duty to plaintiffs involving employee benefits. The plaintiffs generally seek reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbott's employee benefit plans, or an award for
the employee benefits they have allegedly lost. Abbott filed a response denying all substantive allegations.   

  16  

The
Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services in conjunction with the United States Department of Justice, through the United States
Attorneys for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, the Western District of Louisiana, and the Middle District of
Louisiana are investigating the sales and marketing practices of Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In addition, the United States Attorney for Louisiana is investigating Kos' calculation and reporting
of Medicaid rebates. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the
Anti-Kickback Statute, and the Medicaid Rebate Statute in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. Abbott acquired Kos in December 2006, and these
investigations relate to conduct that occurred prior to Abbott's acquisition.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for Maryland, is investigating the sales and marketing practices of Abbott for Micardis , a drug
co-promoted for (until March 31, 2006) and manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of
civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

The
United States Department of Justice, through the Unites States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, is investigating Abbott's sales and marketing activities for Depakote.
The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug Cosmetic Act, and the
Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement to third parties.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, is investigating the sales and marketing activities of Abbott's and other
companies' biliary stent products. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug
Cosmetic Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

          In
2007, Johnson   Johnson, Inc. and Cordis Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson (collectively Johnson   Johnson), filed suits against
Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey asserting infringement of four Johnson   Johnson patents by Abbott's Xience V stent and seeking an injunction, an award
of damages, and a determination of willful infringement. In January 2010, the court issued an Order of Judgment finding that Johnson   Johnson's four patents are invalid and dismissing the
suits against Abbott. In January 2008, Cordis Corporation and Wyeth filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V stent infringes
three additional patents and seeking an injunction, an award of damages, and a determination of willful infringement. In September 2009, Wyeth, Cordis Corporation and Cordis LLC filed suit
against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V stent infringes an additional patent and seeking an injunction and an award of damages. Abbott
denies all substantive allegations in each remaining case.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas brought in July 2008 by Wall Cardiovascular Technologies, LLC in which it
asserts that Abbott's Xience
V stent infringes a patent. Wall seeks an injunction, damages, and enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement. Abbott asserts that the patent is not infringed, invalid, and unenforceable.   

          In
December 2008, Medinol Limited sued Abbott in the High Court of Ireland, the District Court in The Hague, Netherlands, and the Regional Court in Dusseldorf, Germany asserting that
Abbott's Vision and Xience V stents infringe one of its European stent design patents and seeking damages and injunctions. Medinol has since accused Abbott's Multi-Link 8 and Xience Prime
stents of infringement. In Ireland, Abbott asserts that Medinol's patent is invalid and not infringed. In December 2009, the Dutch court found that Abbott's Vision and Xience V stents do not infringe
Medinol's patent. In Germany,   

  17  

Medinol
further asserts that Abbott's Vision, Xience V, Penta, Xience Prime, Multi-Link 8, and Zeta stents infringe two Medinol German stent design patents and one Medinol German stent
design utility model. Abbott initiated an action in the German patent court asserting that its stents do not infringe Medinol's patents and seeking a declaration that Medinol's patents are invalid.
Abbott also initiated an action in the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom asserting that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's patent and seeking a declaration that Medinol's patent is
invalid. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in each remaining case.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibrate tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Tricor ). In a case filed in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in February 2008, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), allege infringement of three patents and seek
injunctive relief against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. In November 2009, the parties reached a settlement and this case was dismissed. In a second case filed in the Northern District of
Illinois in November 2008, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of the three patents and seek injunctive relief against Biovail Laboratories International SRL. This case has been transferred to the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. In a third case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in March 2009, Abbott and Fournier allege that
Lupin Pharmaceuticals and Lupin Limited's proposed generic products infringe the three patents and seek declaratory and injunctive relief. In a fourth case filed in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey in October 2009, Abbott and Fournier allege infringement of the three patents and seek injunctive relief against Impax Laboratories.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patents rights relating to ritonavir/lopinavir tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Kaletra ). In cases filed in the United
States District Courts for the Northern District of Illinois and for the District of Delaware in March 2009, Abbott alleges that Matrix Laboratories, Inc., Matrix Laboratories, Ltd., and
Mylan, Inc.'s proposed generic products infringe Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. Upon Matrix's motion, the court granted a five-year stay of the
litigation unless good cause to lift the stay is shown.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to niacin extended release tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Niaspan ). In a case pending in the United
States District
Courts for the District of Delaware in March 2009, Abbott alleges that Lupin Pharmaceuticals and Lupin Limited's proposed generic products infringe Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and
injunctive relief.    

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS            

          None.   

  18  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed
by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board
meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the
board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed
by the chairman whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.   

          Abbott's
executive officers, their ages as of February 19, 2010, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal
occupations and employment for the past five years and the year of appointment to the earliest reported office are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott. There are no family
relationships between any corporate officers or directors.   

    Miles D. White, 54     

1999
to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1993.   

Richard W. Ashley, 66     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

Olivier Bohuon, 51     

2009
to present   Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products.   

2008
to 2009   Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, International Operations.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President, European Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

John M. Capek, 48     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, Medical Devices.   

2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Abbott Vascular.   

  2006  
Vice President and President, Cardiac Therapies.   

  2005
to 2006   President, Guidant Vascular Intervention.   

2003 to 2005    
     
  Vice President and General Manager, Bioabsorbable Vascular Solutions 
(a subsidiary of Guidant Corporation).  

Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

19  

Thomas C. Freyman, 55     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1991.   

Holger A. Liepmann, 58     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Nutritional Products.   

  2006
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Global Nutrition.   

  2006  
Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2004
to 2006   Senior Vice President, International Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Edward L. Michael, 53     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Diagnostic Products.   

2007
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2007  
Senior Vice President, Medical Products.   

  2003
to 2007   Vice President and President, Molecular Diagnostics.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1997.   

Laura J. Schumacher, 46     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.   

  2005
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

Carlos Alban, 47     

2009
to present   Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals.   

  2008
to 2009   Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Western Europe and Canada.   

2007
to 2008   Vice President, Western Europe and Canada.   

  2006
to 2007   Vice President, Pharmaceutical European Operations.   

  2004
to 2006   Regional Director, North Europe.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Thomas F. Chen, 60     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, International Nutrition.   

2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Nutrition International Operations.   

  2005
to 2006   Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia and Latin America.   

  2005  
Vice President, Nutrition International, Asia, Canada, Latin America.   

  1998
to 2005   Vice President, Abbott International, Pacific/Asia/Africa Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1998.   

20  

Stephen R. Fussell, 52     

2005
to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.   

1999
to 2005   Vice President, Compensation and Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Robert B. Hance, 50     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Vascular.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.   

  2006  
Vice President and President, Vascular Solutions.   

  2003
to 2006   Vice President and President, Abbott Vascular Devices.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

John C. Landgraf, 57     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2004
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2000.   

Heather L. Mason, 49     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Latin America Pharmaceuticals.   

  2005
to 2007   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  2001
to 2005   Vice President, Specialty Operations.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

James V. Mazzo, 52     

2009
to present   Senior Vice President, Abbott Medical Optics.   

2006 to 2009    
     
  Chairman of the Board of Directors, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 
(a global leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices 
for the eye).  

2004
to 2009   Chief Executive Officer, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.   

  2004
to 2007   President, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Donald V. Patton Jr., 57     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals.   

  2007
to 2009   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

  2007  
Senior Vice President, Abbott Nutrition Products Division.   

  2006
to 2007   Vice President, Diagnostic Global Commercial Operations.   

21  

2005
to 2006   Vice President, Commercial Operations.   

  2004
to 2005   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

Mary T. Szela, 46     

2010 to present    
     
  Senior Vice President, Global Strategic Marketing and Services, Pharmaceutical 
Products Group.  

2008
to 2009   Senior Vice President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals.   

  2007
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2006  
Vice President, Commercial Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  2001
to 2006   Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Primary Care Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

Michael J. Warmuth, 47     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2008  
Vice President, Hematology Diagnostics.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2006
to 2007   Divisional Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2004
to 2006   Divisional Vice President of Quality, Global Pharmaceutical Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2007.   

J. Scott White, 41     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

2007 to 2009    
     
  Division Vice President and Regional Director for Latin America, Abbott Nutrition 
International.  

2005 to 2007    
      
   Division Vice President and General Manager for Pediatric Nutrition, Abbott 
Nutrition International.  

Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Greg W. Linder, 53     

2001
to present   Vice President and Controller.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

22  

PART II            

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

    Principal Market     

          The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange
and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.   

Shareholders     

          There were 67,461 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December 31, 2009.   

    Dividends     

          Quarterly dividends of $.40 and $.36 per share were declared on common shares in 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

Abbott
Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22F). Dividends may be eligible
for a subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  23  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    These
shares represent:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   199,837 in
October; 90,004 in November; and 301,583 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Laboratories, Limited Employee Stock Purchase
Plan   14,500 in October; 14,500 in November; and 14,500 in December.     

These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.   

2.    On
October 13, 2008, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $5 billion of its common shares, from time to
time.    

24  

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

1.    In
2006, Abbott recorded pre-tax charges of $2,014 for acquired in-process and collaborations research and development primarily
related to the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.    

25  

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

Financial Review            

          Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements.
Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products are sold; price
controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary products are
prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Sales in international markets are approximately 50 percent of consolidated net sales.   

          The
worldwide launch of additional indications for    HUMIRA   , the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture, the
acquisitions of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, followed by the launch of the     Xience V    drug
eluting stent, the loss of patent protection for some pharmaceutical products, the amendment ending the U.S.     Synagis    co-promotion agreement, and realized gains and unrealized losses on the Boston
Scientific common stock have impacted Abbott's sales,
costs and financial position over the last three years.   

          Pharmaceutical
research and development is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management and infectious diseases. In 2003, Abbott began
the worldwide launch of    HUMIRA    for rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for five additional indications, which increased     HUMIRA's    worldwide sales to
$5.5 billion in 2009 compared to $4.5 billion in 2008, and $3.0 billion in 2007. Abbott forecasts
worldwide    HUMIRA    sales to increase by approximately 20 percent in 2010. Abbott is studying additional indications for     HUMIRA   . Substantial research and
development and selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of
   HUMIRA   . In December 2006, Abbott acquired Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. which complemented Abbott's existing franchise in the dyslipidemia market and
strengthened the pharmaceutical pipeline for cholesterol management. Abbott's    Trilipix   , a next-generation product for management of
triglycerides and the first product approved for use in combination with a statin was launched in 2008. Increased generic competition has resulted in worldwide     Depakote    sales declining from
$1.6 billion in 2007 to $426 million in 2009, U.S. sales of     Omnicef    declining from $235 million in 2007 to $3 million in 2009 and worldwide sales of clarithromycin declining from
$724 million
in 2007 to $599 million in 2009.   

          In
2007, Abbott's nutritional products businesses were reorganized into a worldwide business to better leverage the opportunities available for strong nutritional brands. Significant
efforts have been focused on capturing those opportunities, particularly in developing markets where growth has been strong.   

          In
2008, Abbott received FDA approval to market the    Xience V    drug eluting stent in the U.S. and in 2006 received European Union
approval.    Xience V    became the market-leading drug eluting stent in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2008. In June 2009,     Xience PRIME   , Abbott's next
generation drug eluting stent, received CE Mark approval and was launched in Europe in August 2009. Abbott received approval
to market    Xience V    in Japan in January 2010.   

          In
April 2006, Abbott acquired 64.6 million shares of Boston Scientific in connection with Abbott's acquisition of the vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses
of Guidant. In 2007, the net loss charged to expense for the investment was $153 million. At December 31, 2007, Abbott held 26.4 million shares of Boston Scientific common stock.
In 2008, all of these shares were sold resulting in a small gain.   

          Abbott's
short- and long-term debt totaled $16.5 billion at December 31, 2009, largely incurred to finance recent acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of capital
expenditures and cash dividends have partially funded acquisitions over the last three years. At December 31, 2009, Abbott's long-term debt   

  26  

rating
was AA by Standard and Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott's access to short-term financing was not affected by the credit market conditions in 2008 and early 2009.   

In
April 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the value and assets of the joint venture in a tax-free exchange.
Abbott received TAP's    Lupron    business in exchange for Abbott's 50 percent ownership in TAP.     Lupron's    U.S. results are included in the Pharmaceutical
Products segment beginning in May 2008. Abbott also receives payments based on specified
development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda.   

In
2010, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the pharmaceutical business, Abbott will continue to build its global presence, expand its presence in emerging markets and
diversify its sources of growth with its previously announced acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business, which closed on February 15, 2010. Abbott will also continue maximizing the
market potential for    HUMIRA    and continue to leverage the product and pipeline opportunities of its lipid franchise, including Certriad, which is
expected to receive approval in the first half of 2010. Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to focus on the therapeutic areas noted above with a significant portion of the
development expenditures allocated to compounds in early and mid-stage development for oncology, immunology, Hepatitis C, neuroscience, and pain management. Such compounds include
two oncology compounds in advanced clinical trials, ABT-874 (a biologic for psoriasis), three HCV compounds in human studies, and two compounds in Phase II clinical trials for
Alzheimer's disease. In the vascular business, Abbott launched the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in Japan after receiving approval in
January 2010, and will also focus on marketing    Xience PRIME    in Europe and other markets as well as development of    Xience
PRIME    in the U.S. and its bioabsorbable stent. In the other business segments, Abbott will focus on developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth
segments of those markets.   

    Critical Accounting Policies     

             Sales Rebates      Approximately 50 percent of Abbott's
consolidated gross revenues are subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the
Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Nutritional Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program,
insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans, state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing
organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in
the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale
and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales
when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to 24 months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes
adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to approximately $4.4 billion,
$3.8 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, or 23.8 percent, 22.8 percent and 21.5 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately
$18.4 billion, $16.8 billion and $15.0 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales
would decrease net sales by approximately $184 million in 2009. Abbott considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to
related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $414 million, $362 million and $325 million for cash discounts in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, and $456 million, $439 million and $269 million for returns in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and
therefore can be reliably   

  27  

estimated.
Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.   

          Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that
measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the
supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In
addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably
determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the
WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical
redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2009, Abbott had the exclusive WIC business in 24 states.   

          In
the domestic pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and Wholesaler
Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the
rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third party market
data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track
sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and Abbott believes
they are reliable.   

          The
following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 67 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in
2009. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. (   dollars in millions   )   

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. In 2007, adjustments were made to prior years' rebate accruals. The Medicaid and Medicare
rebate accrual was   

  28  

reduced
by approximately $69 million and the WIC rebate accrual was increased by approximately $19 million. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted
to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency
programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.   

             Income Taxes      Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and
adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than
one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the measurement of tax
contingencies, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest
amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal
income tax returns through 2005 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2005 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign
subsidiaries.   

             Pension and Post-Employment Benefits      Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to
many of its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most
significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on
high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the
cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for
decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Negative asset returns in 2008 due to poor market conditions and low interest rates have
significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2009, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $2.7 billion and $501 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over
the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected
long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a
one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point.   

Valuation of Intangible Assets      Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott
records at fair value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a
discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market
participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions and calculations
for acquisitions of significant intangibles. Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows
of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash
flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate
to in-process research and development acquired in a business   

  29  

combination,
are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. At December 31, 2009, goodwill and intangibles amounted to $13.2 billion and
$6.3 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets amounted to $879 million in 2009. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2009, 2008 or 2007.   

             Litigation      Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification
No. 450, "Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made,
a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period
as additional information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As
information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions.
Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Except for the cases discussed in
Note 8 for which Abbott is unable to estimate a loss, if any, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $170 million to $310 million for its legal
proceedings and environmental exposures. Reserves of approximately $215 million have been recorded at December 31, 2009 for these proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent
management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies."   

             Stock Compensation      Abbott records the fair value of stock options in its results of operations. Since there is no
market for trading employee stock options, management must use a fair value method. There is no certainty that the results of a fair value method would be the value at which employee stock options
would be traded for cash. Fair value methods require management to make several assumptions, the most significant of which are the selection of a fair value model, stock price volatility and the
average life of an option. Abbott has readily available grant-by-grant historical activity for several years in its option administration system that it uses in developing some
of its assumptions. Abbott uses the Black-Scholes
method to value stock options. Abbott uses both historical volatility of its stock price and the implied volatility of traded options to develop the volatility assumptions. Abbott uses the historical
grant activity, combined with expectations about future exercise activity, to develop the average life assumptions. Abbott has also used the historical grant data to evaluate whether certain holders
of stock options exercised their options differently than other holders and has not found any differentiating pattern among holders.   

  30  

Results of Operations     

    Sales     

          The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years:   

Worldwide
sales growth in 2009 reflects unit growth and the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. on February 25, 2009, partially offset by the negative effect of the
relatively stronger U.S. dollar. Worldwide, U.S. and Pharmaceutical Products segment sales also reflect decreased sales of    Depakote    due to generic
competition. Excluding U.S.    Depakote    sales in 2009 and 2008, worldwide sales increased 7.7 percent, U.S. sales increased 7.6 percent and
Pharmaceutical Products segment sales increased 4.3 percent. Worldwide 2008 sales growth reflects unit growth and the positive effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Worldwide 2007 sales
growth reflects the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses on April 21, 2006 and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. Sales
growth in 2007 for the Nutritional Products segment reflects the completion   

  31  

of
the U.S. co-promotion of    Synagis    in 2006. Excluding sales of    Synagis    in 2006, Nutritional
Products segment sales increased 11.3 percent in 2007.   

          A
comparison of significant product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.   

Decreased
sales of    Depakote    due to generic competition impacted U.S. Specialty product sales in 2009 and 2008. This was partially offset
by increased sales of    HUMIRA    and by the addition of    Lupron    sales from the conclusion of the TAP joint
venture in April 2008. Increased sales of    HUMIRA    and    Depakote    impacted U.S. Specialty product sales in
2007. U.S. sales of    HUMIRA    were $2.5 billion, $2.2 billion and $1.6 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and U.S. sales of     Depakote   
were $331 million, $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. U.S. Primary Care sales in all
three years were impacted by decreased sales of    Omnicef, Synthroid and Biaxin    due to generic competition. This was partially offset in 2009 and 2008 by
increased sales of    Niaspan    and in 2008 by higher    TriCor/Trilipix    franchise sales. U.S. Primary Care
sales in 2007 were favorably impacted by sales of    TriCor    and    Niaspan   , a new product from the acquisition
of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Increased sales volume of    HUMIRA    in all three years favorably impacted International Pharmaceuticals sales, partially offset by decreased sales of
clarithromycin in 2009 and 2008 due to generic competition. International sales of    HUMIRA    were $3.0 billion, $2.3 billion and
$1.4 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The relatively stronger U.S. dollar decreased International Pharmaceutical sales in 2009 by 8.6 percent and the relatively weaker U.S.
dollar increased International Pharmaceutical sales in 2008 and 2007 by 7.3 percent and 7.1 percent, respectively. International Pediatric Nutritionals sales increases were due primarily
to volume growth in developing countries. International Adult Nutritionals sales and Immunochemistry sales in 2009 were negatively impacted by the effect of the relatively stronger U.S. dollar. Abbott
has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Related net sales were $120 million, $111 million and $184 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

The
expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. There are currently no significant patent or license
expirations in the next three years.   

    Operating Earnings     

          Gross profit margins were 57.1 percent of net sales in 2009, 57.3 percent in 2008 and 55.9 percent in 2007. The
decrease in the gross profit margin in 2009 was due, in part, to the negative impact from lower sales of    Depakote    and the unfavorable effect of exchange
on the gross profit margin ratio; partially offset by   

  32  

improved
margins in the vascular and diagnostics businesses. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2008 was due, in part, to favorable product mix and the favorable impact of foreign exchange.
The decrease in the gross profit margin in 2007 was due, in part, to the unfavorable impact in 2007 of the completion of the U.S. co-promotion of     Synagis    in 2006 as well as generic competition for
   Omnicef    and     Biaxin    sales in 2007.   

In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and Pharmaceutical Products
segments.   

          Research
and development expense was $2.744 billion in 2009, $2.689 billion in 2008 and $2.506 billion in 2007 and represented increases of 2.0 percent in
2009, 7.3 percent in 2008 and 11.1 percent in 2007. The increase in 2009 reflects the favorable effect of exchange rates which reduced research and
development expense in 2009. Excluding the effect of exchange, research and development expenses increased 3.4 percent in 2009. The increase in 2007 was affected by the acquisitions of
Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses in April 2006 and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006. These increases, excluding the effects of exchange, also
reflect continued pipeline spending, including programs in vascular devices, immunology, neuroscience, oncology, Hepatitis C and pain management. The majority of research and development
expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products.   

          Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased 0.4 percent in 2009 compared to increases of 13.9 percent in 2008 and 16.7 percent in 2007. The 2009 decrease
reflects the favorable effect of exchange rates which was offset by expenses relating to the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. and the settlement of litigation. Excluding the effects of the
charges and exchange, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 0.9 percent in 2009. The 2008 increase reflects the settlement of litigation relating to     TriCor   , which increased selling,
 general and administration expenses by 3.1 percentage points. The 2007 increase reflects the acquisitions of
Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. The remaining increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were due primarily to
increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for    HUMIRA    and     Xience V   , and inflation.

Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business     

          On April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the
value and assets of the joint venture. Abbott exchanged its 50 percent equity interest in TAP for the assets, liabilities and employees related to TAP's     Lupron    business. Subsequent to the
conclusion of the joint venture, TAP was merged into two Takeda entities. The exchange of Abbott's investment in TAP
for TAP's    Lupron    business resulted in a gain at closing of approximately $94 million. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter
ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S. income tax purposes.   

          Beginning
on May 1, 2008, Abbott began recording U.S.    Lupron    net sales and costs in its operating results and no longer records
income from the TAP joint venture. TAP's sales of    Lupron    were $182 million for the four months ended April 30, 2008 and
$645 million in 2007. Abbott also receives payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from
Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda, which are recorded by Abbott as Other (income) expense, net as earned.   

          The
exchange transaction was accounted for as a sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP and as an acquisition of TAP's    Lupron    business.
The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the    Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

  33  

For
the acquired    Lupron    business, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily    Lupron   
product rights, of approximately $700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related primarily to the intangible assets of approximately
$260 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 15 years. Abbott has also agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events are not achieved on the
development assets retained by Takeda. These amounts were recorded as a liability at closing in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Related deferred tax assets of approximately
$410 million were also recorded. Of the $1.1 billion, Abbott made tax-deductible payments of $83 million and $200 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
Abbott will make a tax-deductible payment of approximately $36 million in 2010. In 2009, events occurred resulting in the remaining payments not being required and the remaining
liability in the amount of $797 million was derecognized and recorded as income in Other (income) expense, net.   

The
50 percent-owned joint venture was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Summarized financial information for TAP follows below. The results for 2008 include
results through April 30. (   dollars in millions   )   

In
the fourth quarter of 2008, Abbott sold its spine business for approximately $360 million in cash, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately
$147 million which is presented as Gain on
sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the accompanying statement of income. The operations and financial position of the spine business are not presented as discontinued operations because
the effects would not be significant.   

    Restructurings     

          In 2008, Abbott management approved a plan to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve
efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In 2008, Abbott recorded a charge to Cost of products sold of approximately $129 million under the plan. Additional charges of approximately
$54 million and $16 million were recorded in 2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for accelerated depreciation and product transfer costs. Additional
charges will be incurred through 2011 as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries and product transition timelines.
The following summarizes the activity for this restructuring: (   dollars in millions   )   

In
2009 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $114 million, $36 million and $107 million,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $94 million in 2007 is classified as cost of
products sold, $3 million in 2007 as research and development   

  34  

and
$114 million, $36 million and $10 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as selling, general and administrative. Fair value for the determination of the amount of asset
impairments was determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow method. An additional $47 million, $81 million and $90 million were subsequently recorded in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. In addition, Abbott implemented facilities restructuring plans in 2007 related to the acquired operations
of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. which resulted in an increase to goodwill of approximately $52 million. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:
(   dollars in millions   )   

Interest expense and Interest (income)     

          In 2009 and 2008, interest expense decreased primarily as a result of lower interest rates, partially offset by increased debt levels
in 2009 related to the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Interest expense increased in 2007 due primarily to higher borrowings as a result of the acquisitions of Guidant's vascular
intervention and endovascular solutions businesses and Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Abbott's investment in the Boston Scientific common stock and note receivable. Interest income decreased in 2009 due
to lower interest rates and increased in 2008 and 2007 due to higher investment balances.   

    Other (income) expense, net     

          Other (income) expense, net, for 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 million associated with the
conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture as discussed above, a $287 million gain from the settlement reached between Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. resolving all outstanding
intellectual property litigation between the two parties and income from the recording of certain investments at fair value in connection with business acquisitions. Other (income) expense, net, for
2009 and 2008 also includes ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture and a gain in 2008 on the sale of an equity investment accounted for as an
available-for-sale investment. In addition, Abbott recorded a gain of approximately $94 million in connection with the dissolution of the TAP joint venture in 2008. Other (income) expense, net
for 2007 includes a $190 million fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock and a realized gain of $37 million on the sales of Boston
Scientific common stock.   

    Taxes on Earnings     

          The income tax rates on earnings from continuing operations were 20.1 percent in 2009, 19.2 percent in 2008 and
19.3 percent in 2007. The tax rate in 2009 was effected by a higher tax rate applied to the derecognition of a contingent liability associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical
Products Inc. joint venture and the Medtronic intellectual property litigation settlement. Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of between 16 percent and 16.5 percent in
2010.   

  35  

Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

          On January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations," as codified in
FASB ASC No. 805, "Business Combinations." Under ASC No. 805, acquired in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until
approval or discontinuation rather than as expense, acquisition costs in connection with an acquisition are expensed rather than added to the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of contingent
consideration at the date of an acquisition is added to the cost of the acquisition.   

          In
February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion in cash, net of cash held by AMO. Prior to the
acquisition, Abbott held a small investment in AMO. Abbott acquired AMO to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts and AMO's
premier position in its field. Abbott acquired control of this business on February 25, 2009 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements
beginning on that date. The acquisition was financed with long-term debt. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below: (   dollars in
billions   )   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
   $  
  1.7  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

0.9  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.2  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.4  

Acquired debt  

(1.5  
  )  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(0.3  
  )  

Total allocation of fair value  
     
   $  
  1.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist of established customer relationships, developed technology and trade names and will be amortized over 2 to 30 years (average of
15 years). Acquired in-process research and development will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible
assets acquired consist primarily of trade accounts
receivable, inventory, property and equipment and other assets, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities. Abbott incurred approximately
$89 million of acquisition-related expenses in 2009 which are classified as Selling, general and administrative expense. In addition, subsequent to the acquisition, Abbott repaid substantially
all of the acquired debt of AMO.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million, in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating intraocular lens
(IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired in-process research and
development of approximately $195 million which will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived
intangible assets of approximately $33 million, goodwill of approximately $260 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $89 million. Acquired intangible assets consist
of developed technology and will be amortized over 12 years. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory
milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of percutaneous treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has acquired
100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording $28 million
of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of
approximately $145 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of   

  36  

approximately
$228 million which will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, goodwill of approximately $158 million and
deferred income taxes of approximately $136 million. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and will be amortized over 12 years. The allocation of the fair value of
the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. (Ibis) for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious disease. Including a
$40 million investment in Ibis in 2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated
to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, and acquired in-process research and development that will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval
or discontinuation. The investment in Ibis in 2008 resulted in a charge to acquired in-process research and development. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this
investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording $33 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net.   

          Had
the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          In
December 2009, Abbott acquired the global rights to a novel biologic for the treatment of chronic pain for $170 million, in cash, resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process research and development.   

          In
September 2009, Abbott announced an agreement to acquire Solvay's pharmaceuticals business for EUR 4.5 billion (approximately $6.2 billion), in cash, plus additional
payments of up to EUR 300 million if certain sales milestones are met. This acquisition will provide Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and a significant
presence in key global emerging markets and will add approximately $500 million to Abbott's research and development spending. The transaction closed on February 15, 2010. Sales for the
acquired business are forecast to be approximately $2.9 billion in 2010. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

    Financial Condition     

    Cash Flow     

          Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations amounted to $7.3 billion, $7.0 billion and
$5.2 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash from operating activities of continuing operations in 2008 compared to 2007 is higher due to higher operating earnings, decreased prepaid
expenses and other assets, and increased trade accounts payable and other liabilities. Abbott funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. Abbott funded $700 million
in 2009, and $200 million annually in 2008 and 2007 to the main domestic pension plan. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200 million annually. Abbott
expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends.   

    Debt and Capital     

          At December 31, 2009, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors
Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $6.3 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a $3.3 billion
facility expires in October 2010 and a $3.0 billion facility expires in 2012. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not
material. Abbott's access to short-term financing was not affected by the credit market conditions in 2008 and early 2009.   

          In
October 2008, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time. Under this authorization, 14.5 million
shares were purchased in 2009 at a cost of approximately $800 million and 146,400 shares were purchased in 2008 at a cost of approximately   

  37  

$8 million.
In 2008 and 2007, Abbott purchased approximately 19.0 million of its common shares in each period at a cost of approximately $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion,
respectively, under a prior authorization.   

          Under
a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009, Abbott issued $3.0 billion of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2009 that
matures in 2019 and 2039 with interest rates of 5.125 percent and 6.0 percent, respectively. Proceeds from this debt were used to fund the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.
and to repay debt of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. In addition, Abbott repaid $1 billion of long-term notes that were due in 2009 using short-term borrowings. Under a registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2006, Abbott issued $3.5 billion of long-term debt in 2007 that matures in 2012 through 2037 with interest rates ranging from
5.15 percent to 6.15 percent. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down short-term borrowings that were incurred to partially fund the acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc.   

          The
acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business on February 15, 2010 was funded with current cash and short-term investments.   

          The
judgment entered by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc. requires Abbott to secure
the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court is unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. Abbott expects to deposit approximately $1.8 billion with an
escrow agent during the first quarter of 2010 and will consider these assets to be restricted.   

    Working Capital     

          Working capital was $10.3 billion at December 31, 2009, $5.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and
$4.9 billion at December 31, 2007. The increase in working capital in 2009 was due, primarily, to increased levels of cash and investments and the derecognition of a contingent liability
associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture; partially offset by increased debt levels.   

    Capital Expenditures     

          Capital expenditures of $1.1 billion in 2009, $1.3 billion in 2008 and $1.7 billion in 2007 were principally for
upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, investments in information technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with
customers.   

Contractual Obligations     

          The following table summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009:
(   dollars in millions   )   

(a)    Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.    

38  

Contingent Obligations     

          Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other
companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other
parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these
agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on
the occurrence of certain events. In connection with the acquisition of Guidant's vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, Abbott paid $250 million to Boston Scientific in
January 2010 upon government approval to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in Japan. In addition, Abbott has retained
liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off of Hospira and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices in connection with federal, state and private
reimbursement for certain drugs.   

    Recently Issued Accounting Standards     

          In 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, "Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)," as codified in FASB ASC
No. 810, "Consolidation." FASB ASC No. 810 provides consolidation guidance relating to variable interest entities. These provisions are effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2009. Adoption of these provisions is not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of Abbott.   

    Legislative Issues     

          Abbott's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation throughout the world. Abbott expects
debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. Abbott believes that if
legislation is enacted, it could change access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, create new
fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in
general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K.   

    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     

Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  39  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

Financial Instruments and Risk Management            

    Investment in Boston Scientific Note Receivable     

          At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Abbott has a $900 million loan to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific which is
payable to Abbott in April 2011 and, as such, is subject to credit risk.   

Other Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of these investments was
approximately $75 million and $105 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value,
and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would decrease their
fair value at December 31, 2009 by approximately $15 million. (A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.)   

Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value
of these investments was approximately $78 million and $42 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No individual investment is in excess of $18 million.
Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.   

    Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $5.5 billion and $2.5 billion,
respectively, to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt due in 2011 through 2019. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not
use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to
manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. At December 31, 2009, Abbott had $2.9 billion of domestic commercial paper outstanding with an average
annual interest rate of 0.1% with an average remaining life of 22 days. The fair value of long-term debt at December 31, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $12.3 billion and
$10.5 billion, respectively (average interest rates of 5.3% and 5.2%, respectively) with maturities through 2039. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of current and long-term
investment securities amounted to $2.1 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 100-basis point change in the interest rates would not have a material effect on
cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in rates.)   

    Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          Abbott enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany
loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or
gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Abbott held $7.5 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, of such contracts, which mature in
the next twelve months.   

          In
addition, certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated
intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes
in foreign currency   

  40  

exchange
rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses will be included in Cost of products sold at the
time the products are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Abbott held $2.0 billion and $129 million, respectively, of such contracts,
which all mature in the following calendar year.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt of approximately $575 million and approximately $585 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, as a hedge of the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008: (   dollars in
millions   )   

41  

(This page has been left blank intentionally.)   

  42  

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Consolidated Statement of Earnings  

44  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  

45  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  

46  

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment  

48  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

49  

Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

75  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

76  

43  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Earnings   (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  44  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  45  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)            

46  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(dollars in thousands)    

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  47  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   (dollars in thousands except per share data)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  48  

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

NATURE OF BUSINESS   Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.   

          CONCENTRATION
OF RISK AND GUARANTEES   Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or
geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 23 percent, 27 percent and 25 percent of trade receivables as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Product warranties are not significant.   

          Abbott
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at
fair value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming
secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate
of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott periodically
acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events. In connection with the
spin-off of Hospira, Inc., Abbott has retained liabilities for taxes on income prior to the spin-off and certain potential liabilities, if any, related to alleged improper pricing practices in
connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs.   

          BASIS
OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany
transactions. The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November 30, due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. In December 2009, a foreign subsidiary acquired
certain technology that was accounted for as acquired in-process research and development. This transaction was recorded in 2009 due to the significance of the amount. No other events
occurred related to these
foreign subsidiaries in December 2009, 2008 and 2007 that materially affected the financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

          Events
that occurred after December 31, 2009 through the date that these financial statements have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission were considered in the
preparation of these financial statements.   

          Effective
January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB
No. 51," as codified in FASB ASC No. 810, "Consolidation" and accordingly, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries are presented as a component of total equity as of December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007.   

          USE
OF ESTIMATES   The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other
post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, share-based compensation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales
incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily
available and reliable, and is used for estimating the   

  49  

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

amount
of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are
recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded
as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is recorded over the periods earned.   

          INCOME
TAXES   Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the
financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted
to the parent company. Deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Interest and
penalties on income tax obligations are included in taxes on income.   

          EARNINGS
PER SHARE   Effective January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted FSP EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities," as codified in FASB ASC No. 260, "Earnings Per Share," which requires that unvested restricted stock units that contain
non-forfeitable rights to dividends be treated as participating securities and be included in the computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Under the
two-class method, net earnings are allocated between common shares and participating securities. Net earnings allocated to common shares for 2009 were $5.733 billion. Net earnings
allocated to common shares in 2008 and 2007 were not significantly different than net earnings.   

          PENSION
AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS   Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the service
attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan
assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining
service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method.   

          FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS   For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, total fair value is the published market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar
assets or liabilities, adjusted for contract restrictions and other terms specific to that asset or liability. For these items, a significant portion of fair value is derived by reference to quoted
prices of similar assets or liabilities in active markets. For all remaining assets and liabilities, fair value is derived using a fair value model, such as a discounted cash flow model or
Black-Scholes model. Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value. The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash
flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market
participants. Intangible assets, and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.   

SHARE-BASED
COMPENSATION   The value of stock options and restricted stock awards and units are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the
vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense.   

          LITIGATION  
Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency
provisions are recorded for probable losses at   

  50  

Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

management's
best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.   

          CASH,
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS   Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less. Except
for Abbott's investment in the common stock of Boston Scientific, investments in marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized
holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Beginning on January 1, 2007, the investment in the common stock of Boston Scientific was
accounted for as a trading security with changes in fair value recorded in income. Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at cost. Investments in
debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at cost, net of any
unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as interest income.   

          Abbott
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the
investee, factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and
the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other
(income) expense, net.   

          INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.   

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following
table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment:   

PRODUCT
LIABILITY   Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Prior to 2009, Abbott carried third-party insurance coverage in amounts
that reflect historical loss experience, which did not include coverage for sizable losses. Beginning in 2009, product liability losses are self-insured.   

          RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the
milestone results are achieved.   

  51  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information     

The
fair value option for the investment in Boston Scientific common stock was applied effective January 1, 2007. Under the fair value option, any cumulative unrealized gains or
losses on an equity investment previously accounted for as an available-for-sale security is recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of the election to apply the
fair value option. The pretax and after tax adjustment to Earnings employed in the business upon election to apply the fair value option was $297 million and $189 million, respectively,
and the fair value and carrying amount of the investment before and after the election was approximately $1.0 billion. The pretax and after tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) was $303 million and $182 million, respectively. The effect on deferred income taxes of applying the fair value option was not significant.   

          Other
(income) expense, net, for 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 million associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.
joint venture as discussed in Note 3, a $287 million gain from the settlement reached between Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. resolving all outstanding intellectual property litigation
between the two parties and income from the recording of certain investments at fair value in connection with business acquisitions. Other (income) expense, net, for 2009 and 2008 also includes
ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture and a gain in 2008 on the sale of an equity investment accounted for as an available-for-sale
investment. In addition, Abbott recorded a gain of approximately $94 million in connection with the dissolution of the TAP joint venture in 2008. Other (income) expense, net for 2007 includes a
$190 million fair market value loss adjustment to Abbott's investment in Boston Scientific common stock and a realized gain of $37 million on the sales of Boston Scientific common stock.   

52  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

(a)    Accrued
wholesaler chargeback rebates of $217, $210 and $157 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are netted in trade receivables
because Abbott's customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.    

For
the acquired    Lupron    business in 2008, as discussed in Note 3, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily     Lupron    product rights, of approximately
$700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related to the
intangible assets of approximately $260 million. Abbott also recorded a liability of approximately $1.1 billion relating to an agreement to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and
development events are not achieved on the development assets retained by Takeda. Related deferred tax assets of approximately $410 million were also recorded. The sale of Abbott's equity
interest   

  53  

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

in
TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the    Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables, inventory and other assets, net of accounts
payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

    Note 3   Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business     

On April 30, 2008, Abbott and Takeda concluded their TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture, evenly splitting the value and assets of the joint venture. Abbott
exchanged its 50 percent equity interest in TAP for the assets, liabilities and employees related to TAP's    Lupron    business. Subsequent to the
conclusion of the joint venture, TAP was merged into two Takeda entities. The exchange of Abbott's investment in TAP for TAP's    Lupron    business resulted
in a gain at closing of approximately $94 million. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a private letter ruling that the transaction qualifies as tax-free for U.S. income tax purposes.   

          Beginning
on May 1, 2008, Abbott began recording U.S.    Lupron    net sales and costs in its operating results and no longer records
income from the TAP joint venture. TAP's sales of    Lupron    were $182 million for the four months ended April 30, 2008 and
$645 million in 2007. Abbott also receives payments based on specified development, approval and commercial events being achieved with respect to products retained by Takeda and payments from
Takeda based on sales of products retained by Takeda, which are recorded by Abbott as Other (income) expense, net as earned.   

The
exchange transaction was accounted for as a sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP and as an acquisition of TAP's    Lupron    business.
The sale of Abbott's equity interest in TAP resulted in the recording of net assets related to the    Lupron    business, primarily cash, receivables,
inventory and other assets, net of accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, offset by a credit to Abbott's investment in TAP in the amount of approximately $280 million.   

          For
the acquired    Lupron    business, Abbott recorded intangible assets, primarily    Lupron   
product rights, of approximately $700 million, goodwill of approximately $350 million and deferred tax liabilities related primarily to the intangible assets of approximately
$260 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 15 years. Abbott has also agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events are not achieved on the
development assets retained by Takeda. These amounts were recorded as a liability at closing in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion. Related deferred tax assets of approximately
$410 million were also recorded. Of the $1.1 billion, Abbott made tax-deductible payments of $83 million and $200 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
Abbott will make a tax-deductible payment of approximately $36 million in 2010. In 2009, events occurred resulting in the remaining payments not being required and the remaining
liability in the amount of $797 million was derecognized and recorded as income in Other (income) expense, net.   

          The
50 percent-owned joint venture was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Summarized financial information for TAP follows below. The results for 2008 include
results through April 30. (   dollars in millions   )   

54  

Note 3   Conclusion of TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. Joint Venture and Sale of Abbott's Spine Business (Continued)     

In the fourth quarter of 2008, Abbott sold its spine business for approximately $360 million in cash, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately
$147 million which is presented as Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes, in the accompanying statement of income. The operations and financial position of the spine business
are not presented as discontinued operations because the effects would not be significant.   

    Note 4   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases
by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $2.0 billion, $129 million and $281 million at December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are recorded at fair value. Accumulated gains and losses as
of December 31, 2009 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for
intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts
require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade
payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Abbott held $7.5 billion,
$8.3 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries of approximately $575 million, $585 million and
$1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          Abbott
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $5.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, to
manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt due 2011 through 2019. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of
fixed-rate debt due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that
portion of the debt. Abbott records the contracts at fair
value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2009, 2008 and 2007 for these hedges.   

Gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $42 million and $(3) million, respectively, at December 31, 2009;
$55 million and $(23) million, respectively, at December 31, 2008 and $108 million and $(3) million, respectively, at December 31, 2007.   

  55  

Note 4   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

          The
following table summarizes the amounts and location of certain derivative financial instruments as of December 31:   

The following table summarizes the activity for foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, debt designated as a
hedge of net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries and the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss) reclassified into income and for certain other derivative financial
instruments. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in 2009, 2008 and 2007 for these hedges.   

The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in
the long-term benchmark interest rates. The hedged debt is marked to market, offsetting the effect of marking the interest rate swaps to market.   

          The
carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments
approximate their estimated fair   

  56  

Note 4   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

values.
The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counterparties.   

The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:   

In connection with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture, Abbott received investments in 2008 that are valued using
significant unobservable inputs. The recorded value of these investments has not changed significantly.   

  57  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits     

Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and post-employment medical and
dental benefit plans is as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $2.0 billion, $1.3 billion and
$1.8 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $5.8 billion, $4.7 billion and
$4.9 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the
aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $1.5 billion, $4.2 billion and   

  58  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

$697 million,
respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $1.8 billion, $4.8 billion and $770 million, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were
$780 million, $3.3 billion and $84 million, respectively.   

Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2009 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $52 million and
$4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $197 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $30 million and
$22 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $128 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2008 includes amortization of actuarial losses and
prior service cost of $34 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $1.6 billion for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior
service credits of $29 million and $21 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $19 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2007
includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $81 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $341 million for defined benefit plans and
amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $55 million and $22 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $96 million for medical and dental plans. The
pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior service cost (credits) included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2009 that is expected to be recognized in the net
periodic benefit cost in 2010 is $117 million and $4 million, respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $39 million and $(22) million, respectively, for medical
and dental plans.   

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

59  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

The
discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The
health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A
one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of December 31,
2009, by $232 million/$(189) million, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then ended by approximately
$23 million/$(18) million.   

          The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure defined benefit plans' assets at fair value at December 31, 2009:   

(a)    A
mix of low-cost index funds not actively managed that track the S P 500 (40 percent) and separate actively managed equity
accounts that track the Russell 1000 (60 percent).
      (b)    A
mix of low-cost index funds not actively managed (75 percent) and separate actively managed equity accounts (25 percent) that
track the S P 400 midcap index.
      (c)    Primarily
separate actively managed pooled investment accounts that track the MSCI and MSCI emerging market indices.
      (d)    Low-cost
index funds not actively managed (75 percent) and separate actively managed accounts (25 percent).    

60  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

(e)    Low-cost
index funds not actively managed (75 percent) and separate actively managed accounts (25 percent).
      (f)    Primarily
United Kingdom and Irish government-issued bonds.
      (g)    Primarily
mortgage backed securities.
      (h)    Primarily
funds invested by managers that have a global mandate with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and
strategies including, but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, interest rate futures, currencies and other securities to outperform an agreed upon benchmark with specific return and
volatility targets.
      (i)    Primarily
cash and cash equivalents.    

Equities
that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that are valued using
significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its
liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Absolute
return funds are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator.   

          The
following table summarizes the change in the value of assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs: (   dollars in
millions   )   

The
investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity
securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income
securities, maturities and credit
quality. The plans do not directly hold any securities of Abbott. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plans' assets.   

The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios.
In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.   

          Approximately
70 percent of Abbott's medical and dental plans' assets are invested in equity securities and 30 percent in fixed income securities and are measured using
quoted prices in active markets or significant other observable inputs.   

          Abbott
funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. In 2009, $700 million was funded to the main domestic pension plan and $200 million was funded
annually to the main domestic   

  61  

Note 5   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

pension
plan in 2008 and in 2007. International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200 million
annually.   

          Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans, are as follows:
(   dollars in millions   )   

The
Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $137 million in 2009, $129 million in 2008 and
$119 million in 2007.   

          Abbott
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of
the employees.   

Note 6   Taxes on Earnings     

Taxes on earnings from continuing operations reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on
future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are
intended to be remitted to the parent company. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely
in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $20.6 billion at December 31, 2009. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes
not provided on these earnings. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2005 are settled, and the income tax returns for years after 2005 are open. There are numerous other income tax
jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

  62  

Note 6   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

Earnings
from continuing operations before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings from continuing operations, were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

Differences
between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, total deferred tax assets were $4.4 billion, $5.4 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, and total deferred tax
liabilities were $1.8 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Abbott has incurred losses in a foreign jurisdiction where realization of the future economic benefit
is so remote that the benefit is not reflected as a deferred tax asset. Valuation allowances for   

  63  

Note 6   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

recorded
deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

The
following table summarizes the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits without regard to reduction in tax liabilities or additions to deferred tax assets and liabilities if such
unrecognized tax benefits were settled. (   dollars in millions   )   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate is approximately $2.0 billion. Abbott believes that it is reasonably
possible that unrecognized tax benefits will be settled within the next twelve months as a result of concluding various tax matters. Abbott expects the range of the decrease in the recorded amounts of
unrecognized tax benefits, primarily as a
result of cash adjustments, to range from zero to $680 million, arising from the conclusion of these tax matters.   

    Note 7   Segment and Geographic Area Information     

Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold directly to retailers,
wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. Abbott's reportable segments are as follows:   

Pharmaceutical Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of pharmaceuticals. For segment reporting purposes, two pharmaceutical
divisions are aggregated and reported as the Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

            Nutritional Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products.   

  64  

Note 7   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)     

            Diagnostic Products       Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories and
alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, three diagnostic divisions are aggregated and reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.   

Vascular Products       Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular and vessel closure products.   

          Abbott's
underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent
with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the
cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. For acquisitions prior to 2006,
substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not allocated to segments. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of
Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements. (   dollars in
millions   )   

(a)    Net
sales and operating earnings for 2009 were unfavorably affected by the relatively stronger U.S. dollar and were favorably affected by the relatively
weaker U.S. dollar in 2008 and 2007.
      (b)    Additions
to long-term assets in 2009 for the Vascular Products segment include goodwill of $158 and intangibles of $373. Additions to long-term assets in
2008 for the Pharmaceutical Products segment includes acquired intangible assets of $700 and for the Vascular Products segment includes goodwill of $321.    

65  

Note 7   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(c)    Other,
net, for 2009, includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 established in connection with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture
and a $287 gain from a patent litigation settlement.    

(d)    Sales
by country are based on the country that sold the product.    

Note 8   Litigation and Environmental Matters     

Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state
remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott
has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $3 million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $15 million.   

          There
are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbott's products infringe their patents. In April 2007, New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. filed a lawsuit
in the Eastern District of Texas asserting that    HUMIRA    infringes a patent co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to Centocor.
In June 2009, a jury found that Abbott had willfully infringed the patent and awarded NYU and Centocor approximately $1.67 billion in past compensatory damages. In October 2009, the district
court overturned the jury's finding that Abbott's infringement was willful, but denied Abbott's request to overturn the jury's verdict on validity, infringement, and damages. In December 2009, the
district court issued a final judgment and awarded the plaintiffs an additional $175 million in   

  66  

Note 8   Litigation and Environmental Matters (Continued)    

prejudgment
interest. Abbott has appealed the jury's verdict. Abbott is confident in the merits of its case and believes that it will prevail on appeal. As a result, no reserves have been recorded in
this case. Abbott's acquisition of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. resulted in the assumption of various cases and investigations and Abbott has recorded a reserve.   

          There
are several civil actions pending brought by individuals or entities that allege generally that Abbott and numerous pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing
information relating to the average wholesale price of certain pharmaceutical products in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement. Civil actions have also been brought against Abbott,
and in some cases other members of the pharmaceutical industry, by state attorneys general seeking to recover alleged damages on behalf of state Medicaid programs. In May 2006, Abbott was notified
that the U.S.
Department of Justice intervened in a civil whistle-blower lawsuit alleging that Abbott inflated prices for Medicaid and Medicare reimbursable drugs. Abbott has settled a few of the cases and recorded
reserves for its estimated losses in a few other cases, however, Abbott is unable to estimate the range or amount of possible loss for the remaining cases, and no loss reserves have been recorded for
them. Many of the products involved in these cases are Hospira products. Hospira, Abbott's former hospital products business, was spun off to Abbott's shareholders in 2004. Abbott retained liability
for losses that result from these cases and investigations to the extent any such losses both relate to the sale of Hospira's products prior to the spin-off of Hospira and relate to allegations that
were made in such pending and future cases and investigations that were the same as allegations existing at the date of the spin-off.   

          Within
the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures, except
as noted above, Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $170 million to $310 million. The recorded reserve balance at December 31, 2009 for these
proceedings and exposures was approximately $215 million. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies."   

          While
it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except for the cases and investigations discussed in the third paragraph and the patent case discussed in the
second paragraph of this footnote, the resolution of which could be material to cash flows or results of operations.   

In
2009, Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. reached a settlement resolving all outstanding intellectual property litigation between the two parties. Under the terms of the settlement, Medtronic
paid Abbott $400 million. The settlement also includes a mutual agreement not to pursue additional litigation on current and future vascular products, subject to specific conditions and time
limits. In connection with the settlement, Abbott recognized a gain of $287 million which is included in Other (income) expense, net. The remaining amounts are being recognized as royalty
income as earned.   

    Note 9   Incentive Stock Program     

The 2009 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of nonqualified stock options, replacement stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards,
foreign benefits and other share-based awards. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently
outstanding under this program and a prior program. In 2009, Abbott granted 1,783,300 stock options, 1,449,301 replacement stock options, 1,278,467 restricted stock awards and 5,677,322 restricted
stock units under this program. In addition, 2,899,411 options were issued in connection with the conversion of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. options to Abbott options. The purchase price of shares
under option must be at least equal to the fair   

  67  

Note 9   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

market
value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is 10 years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six
months. Options granted before January 1, 2005 included a replacement feature. Except for options outstanding that have a replacement feature, options granted after December 31, 2004 do
not include a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option may be granted equal to the amount of shares tendered.
Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires on the date of the underlying option grant. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options
become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards and units are deemed satisfied. Restricted stock awards generally vest between 3 and 5 years and for
restricted stock awards that vest over 5 years, no more than one-third of the award vests in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock
units vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock awards and
units is recognized as expense over the service period. Restricted stock awards and settlement of vested restricted stock units are issued out of treasury shares. Abbott generally issues new shares
for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not have a policy of purchasing its shares relating to its share-based programs. At December 31, 2009, approximately 220 million shares were
reserved for future grants, including 175 million shares authorized by Abbott's shareholders in April 2009. Subsequent to year-end, the reserve was reduced by approximately
23 million shares for stock options and restricted stock awards and units granted by the Board of Directors.   

          The
number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009 was
3,574,445 and $52.21 and 8,703,247 and $53.64, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested and
lapsed during 2009 were 6,955,789 and $53.54, 1,556,472 and $49.98 and 270,515 and $53.39, respectively. The fair market value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was
$81 million, $76 million and $114 million, respectively.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2009 was $574 million and $565 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $129 million, $314 million and $613 million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based
compensation plans at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $230 million which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

Total
non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2009, 2008 and 2007 for share-based plans totaled approximately $365 million, $350 million and
$430 million, respectively, and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $118 million, $117 million and $142 million, respectively. Compensation cost capitalized as
part of inventory is not significant.   

  68  

Note 9   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

The
fair value of an option granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $9.28, $11.42 and $12.88, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
option's expected life. The average life of an option is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on
Abbott's stock and historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

    Note 10   Debt and Lines of Credit     

The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31: (   dollars in millions   )   

Principal
payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2009, are $211 million in 2010, $2.0 billion in 2011, $1.0 billion in 2012,
$291 million in 2013, $502 million in 2014 and $7.6 billion thereafter.   

          At
December 31, 2009, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available financial
resources, including unused lines of credit of $6.3 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a $3.3 billion facility expires in October 2010 and a
$3.0 billion facility expires in 2012. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbott's weighted-average
interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.2% at December 31, 2009, 0.5% at December 31, 2008 and 3.7% at December 31, 2007.   

  69  

Note 11   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

On January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations," as codified in FASB ASC No. 805, "Business Combinations."
Under ASC No. 805, acquired in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until approval or discontinuation rather than as expense,
acquisition costs in connection with an acquisition are expensed rather than added to the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of contingent consideration at the date of an acquisition is added
to the cost of the acquisition.   

          In
February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion in cash, net of cash held by AMO. Prior to the
acquisition, Abbott held a
small investment in AMO. Abbott acquired AMO to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts and AMO's premier position in its
field. Abbott acquired control of this business on February 25, 2009 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. The
acquisition was financed with long-term debt. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below: (   dollars in billions   )   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
   $  
  1.7  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

0.9  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.2  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.4  

Acquired debt  

(1.5  
  )  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(0.3  
  )  

Total allocation of fair value  
     
   $  
  1.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist of established customer relationships, developed technology and trade names and will be amortized over 2 to 30 years (average of
15 years). Acquired in-process research and development will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible
assets acquired consist primarily of trade accounts
receivable, inventory, property and equipment and other assets, net of assumed liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities. Abbott incurred approximately
$89 million of acquisition-related expenses in 2009 which are classified as Selling, general and administrative expense. In addition, subsequent to the acquisition, Abbott repaid substantially
all of the acquired debt of AMO.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million, in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating intraocular lens
(IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients. The preliminary allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired in-process research and
development of approximately $195 million which will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived
intangible assets of approximately $33 million, goodwill of approximately $260 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $89 million. Acquired intangible assets consist
of developed technology and will be amortized over 12 years. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory
milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of non-surgical treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has
acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording
$28 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net. The preliminary   

  70  

Note 11   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

allocation
of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $145 million, non-deductible acquired in-process
research and development of approximately $228 million which will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, goodwill of
approximately $158 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $136 million. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and will be amortized over 12 years.
The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is completed.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. (Ibis) for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious disease. Including a
$40 million investment in Ibis in 2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated
to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, and acquired in-process research and development that will be accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval
or discontinuation. The investment in Ibis in 2008 resulted in a charge to acquired in-process research and development. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this
investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording $33 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net.   

          Had
the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts.   

In
December 2009, Abbott acquired the global rights to a novel biologic for the treatment of chronic pain for $170 million, in cash, resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process research and development.   

          In
September 2009, Abbott announced an agreement to acquire Solvay's pharmaceuticals business for EUR 4.5 billion (approximately $6.2 billion), in cash, plus
additional payments of up to EUR 300 million if certain sales milestones are met. This acquisition will provide Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products
and a significant presence in key global emerging markets and will add approximately $500 million to Abbott's research and development spending. The transaction closed on February 15,
2010. Sales for the acquired business are forecast to be approximately $2.9 billion in 2010. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition will be finalized when the valuation is
completed.   

    Note 12   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

Abbott recorded goodwill of approximately $2.2 billion in 2009 related to the acquisitions of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Ibis Biosciences, Inc., Visiogen, Inc. and Evalve,
Inc. Goodwill of approximately $120 million related to the Ibis acquisition was allocated to the Diagnostic Products segment and goodwill of approximately $160 million related to the
Evalve acquisition was allocated to the Vascular Products segment. In connection with the dissolution of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. (TAP) joint venture in 2008, Abbott recorded approximately
$350 million of goodwill related to the Pharmaceutical Products segment. In 2008, Abbott paid $250 million to Boston Scientific as a result of the FDA's approval to market the     Xience V   
drug-eluting stent in the U.S., resulting in an increase in goodwill in the Vascular Products segment. Abbott recorded
goodwill of $53 million in 2007 related to acquisitions. Goodwill adjustments recorded in 2007 allocated to the Pharmaceutical Products segment amounted to $194 million and adjustments
allocated to the Vascular Products segment amounted to $(141) million. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments increased (decreased) goodwill in 2009, 2008 and 2007 by
$997 million, $(677) million and $627 million, respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at December 31, 2009 was $6.7 billion for the
Pharmaceutical Products segment, $206 million for the Nutritional Products segment, $385 million for the Diagnostic Products segment, and $2.7 billion for the Vascular Products
segment. Goodwill was reduced by approximately $64 million in   

  71  

Note 12   Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)    

connection
with the sale of Abbott's spine business in 2008. There were no other reductions of goodwill relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.   

          The
gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology was $10.8 billion, $9.4 billion and $9.0 billion as of December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $5.1 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, were approximately $610 million at December 31,
2009. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets recorded at December 31, 2009 is approximately $899 million in 2010, $884 million in 2011,
$865 million in 2012, $739 million in 2013 and $656 million in 2014. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average 11 years).   

    Note 13   Restructuring Plans     

In 2008, Abbott management approved a plan to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In 2008,
Abbott recorded a charge to Cost of products sold of approximately $129 million under the plan. Additional charges of approximately $54 million and $16 million were recorded in
2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for accelerated depreciation and product transfer costs. Additional charges will be incurred through 2011 as a result of product
re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries and product transition timelines. The following summarizes the activity for this restructuring:
(   dollars in millions   )   

In
2009 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $114 million, $36 million and $107 million,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $94 million in 2007 is classified as cost of
products sold, $3 million in 2007 as research and development and $114 million, $36 million and $10 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as selling, general and
administrative. Fair value for the determination of the amount of asset impairments was determined primarily based on a discounted cash flow method. An additional $47 million,
$81 million and $90 million were subsequently recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated depreciation. In addition, Abbott
implemented facilities restructuring plans in 2007 related to the acquired operations of Kos Pharmaceuticals Inc. which resulted in an increase to goodwill of   

  72  

Note 13   Restructuring Plans (Continued)    

approximately
$52 million. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings: (   dollars in millions   )   

Note 14   Subsequent Events     

As of the beginning of 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. As a result, beginning in 2010, the U.S. dollar will be the functional
currency for Abbott's operations in Venezuela. In January 2010, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of its bolivar currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Excluding the
one-time balance sheet devaluation and local tax liability impact of approximately $110 million, Abbott does not expect the bolivar devaluation to have a significant impact on
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.   

          In
January 2010, Abbott suspended its sales of sibutramine in the European Union (EU) following the recommendation by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the
European Medicines Agency (EMA). Abbott reflected the 2009 impact of the suspension, primarily related to inventory exposures, in its 2009 results. Abbott does not expect the suspension of EU
sibutramine sales to have a significant impact on consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.   

The
judgment entered by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc.
requires Abbott to secure the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court is unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. Abbott expects to deposit approximately
$1.8 billion with an escrow agent during the first quarter of 2010 and will consider these assets to be restricted.   

  73  

Note 15   Quarterly Results (Unaudited)     

    (dollars in millions except per share data)      

(a)    The
sum of the quarters' basic earnings per share for 2009 and 2007 and the sum of the quarters' diluted earnings per share for 2009 do not add to the full
year earnings per share amounts due to rounding.    

74  

Management Report on Internal Control   Over Financial Reporting            

          The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Abbott's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
financial statements.   

          All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   

          Abbott's
management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, it used the criteria
set forth in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
As allowed by SEC guidance, management excluded from its assessment Abbott Medical Optics which was acquired in 2009 and accounted for approximately 7 percent of consolidated total assets and
3 percent of consolidated net sales as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2009, the company's internal
control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.   

          Abbott's
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
This report appears on page 77.   

  Miles D.
White 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  Thomas C.
Freyman 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

  Greg W.
Linder 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER   

  February 19,
2010   

  75  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

As
discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of a new accounting standard relating to business combinations in 2009.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control-Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 19, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2010   

  76  

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described
in Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment Abbott Medical Optics which was acquired in 2009 and accounted for approximately 7% of
consolidated total assets and approximately 3% of consolidated net sales as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over
financial reporting at Abbott Medical Optics. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

          We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2009 and our report dated February 19, 2010 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding
the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard in 2009.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2010   

  77  

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

None.    

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

    Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

            Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.       The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and the Chief Financial Officer,
Thomas C. Freyman, evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott
Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its principal executive
officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

            Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.       Management's report on Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting is
included on page 75 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is
included on page 77 hereof.   

           Changes in internal control over financial reporting.       During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, there were no changes in Abbott's
internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's
internal control over financial reporting.    

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  78  

PART III            

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors,"
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the
2010 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2010 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2010. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption,
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 19 through 22 hereof.   

          Abbott
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of
Abbott's code of business conduct which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com). Abbott intends to include on its website (www.abbott.com) any
amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller that
relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.    

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2010 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2010 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2010.    

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)      Equity Compensation Plan Information.    

1.    (i)
   Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program   . Benefits under the 1996 Program include stock options
intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("incentive stock options"), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment
("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available
for issuance under the 1996 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards
may be satisfied only from treasury shares).    

If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 1996 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 1996 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit
under the 1996   

79  

Program
and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other
common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 1996
Program.   

  In
April 2009, the 1996 Program was replaced by the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program. No further awards will be granted under the 1996 Program.   

  (ii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program.    Benefits under the 2009 Program include stock options that do not qualify for special tax
treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards, other share-based awards
(including stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalents and recognition awards), awards to non-employee directors, and foreign benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance
under the 2009 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be
satisfied only from treasury shares).   

  If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 2009 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 2009 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit
under the 2009 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by
delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized
under the 2009 Program.   

  (iii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees.    Eligible employees of participating non-U.S.
affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a
limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.   

  Purchase
cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August 1 and February 1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire
Abbott common shares. The shares acquired come from treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase
cycle.   

  (iv)
   Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Plans.    In 2009, in connection with its acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Abbott assumed
options outstanding under the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended; AMO's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated; the
Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral Plan, as amended and restated; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock
Plan, as amended; the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan; and the VISX, Incorporated 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan. As of December 31, 2009, 2,684,617 options remained outstanding
under the plans. These options have a weighted average purchase price of $65.65. No further awards will be granted under the plans.   

For
additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program, and the Abbott Laboratories 2009
Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees, see the discussion in Note 9 entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."    

(b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership   . Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the
heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2010 Proxy Statement. The 2010 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2010.    
  80  

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

          The material to be included in the 2010 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors," "Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Corporate Governance Materials," and "Approval Process for Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2010 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2010.    

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          The material to be included in the 2010 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on
Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2010 Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 15, 2010.   

  81  

PART IV            

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

(a)      Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.   

(1)     Financial Statements:    See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 43
hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:    The required financial statement schedules are found on the pages indicated
below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories:    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules

Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  

85  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

86  

Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05 of Regulation S-X  

(3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:    The information called for by
this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 87 through 95 of this Form 10-K.

(b)      Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 87 through 95).
         (c)       Financial Statement Schedule filed (page 85).      
  82  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

By  
      
    /s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2010  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February 19,
2010 in the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Abbott Laboratories (principal executive officer)  
     
   /s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer)  

/s/ GREG W. LINDER 

Greg W. Linder 
Vice President and Controller 
(principal accounting officer)  
      
    /s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ WILLIAM M. DALEY 

William M. Daley 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL 

W. James Farrell 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER 

H. Laurance Fuller 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ WILLIAM A. OSBORN 

William A. Osborn 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ DAVID A. L. OWEN 

David A. L. Owen 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

83  

/s/ W. ANN REYNOLDS, PH.D. 

W. Ann Reynolds, Ph.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
     
   /s/ ROY S. ROBERTS 

Roy S. Roberts 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ SAMUEL C. SCOTT III 

Samuel C. Scott III 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG 

William D. Smithburg 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ GLENN F. TILTON 

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

84  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES   SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007   (in thousands of dollars)            

85  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and
the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 19, 2010, which report relating to the consolidated
financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard in 2009; such reports are included elsewhere
in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2010   

  86  

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2009            

Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

2.1  
     
       *Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement among Solvay SA and the other Sellers (as defined in the Agreement) and Abbott Laboratories and the
other Buyers (as defined in the Agreement), dated as of September 26, 2009, filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.  

2.2  
     
       *Amendment No. 1, dated February 15, 2010, to Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement among Solvay SA and the other
Sellers (as defined in the Agreement) and Abbott Laboratories and the other Buyers (as defined in the Agreement), dated as of September 26, 2009, filed as Exhibit 2.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated
February 15, 2010.  

2.3  
     
       *Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 11, 2009, by and among Abbott Laboratories, Rainforest
Acquisition Inc. and Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 11, 2009.  

3.1  
     
       *Articles of Incorporation, Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.  

3.2  
     
       *Corporate By-Laws of Abbott Laboratories, as amended and restated effective as of February 20, 2009, filed as
Exhibit 3.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 20, 2009.  

3.3  
     
       *Corporate By-Laws of Abbott Laboratories, as amended and restated effective as of April 24, 2009, filed as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 20, 2009.  

4.1  
     
       *Indenture dated as of February 9, 2001, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.) (including form of Security), filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated
February 12, 2001.  

4.2  
     
       *Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 27, 2006, between Abbott Laboratories and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated February 28, 2006.  

4.3  
     
       *Form of 3.5% Note, filed as Exhibit 4.29 to the 2003 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

4.4  
     
       *Actions of Authorized Officers with Respect to Abbott's 3.5% Notes, filed as Exhibit 4.30 to the 2003 Abbott
Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

87  

88  

89  

10-K 
Exhibit 
Table 
Item No.    

10.10  
     
       Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated.**  

10.11  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program granted on
or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.12  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.13  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.14  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option granted with a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.15  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.16  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Replacement Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock
Program, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.17  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.18  
     
       *Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.19  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed as
Exhibit 10.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 20, 2004.**  

10.20  
     
       *Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, filed
as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004.**  

10.21  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted with an Incentive Stock Option under the
Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

10.22  
     
       *Form of Employee Stock Option Agreement for a new Non-Qualified Stock Option under the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive
Stock Program granted on or after February 18, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 18, 2005.**  

90  

91  

92  

93  

94  

The 2010 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 15, 2010.   

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

Abbott
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400.   

  95  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   
 
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
 
  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS   
  FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS   
  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   
  INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL   
  INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS   
  INTERNET INFORMATION   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
 
  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   
 
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
 
  PART II   
 
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
 
  Financial Review   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
 
  Financial Instruments and Risk Management   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Earnings (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (dollars in thousands)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheet (dollars in thousands)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment (dollars in thousands except per share data)   
 
  Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
 
  Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
  Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
 
  PART III   
 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   

PART IV   
 
  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

SIGNATURES   
 
  ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008, AND 2007 (in thousands of dollars)   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FORM 10-K 2009   

<EX-10.3>
 2
 a2196380zex-10_3.htm
 EX-10.3

Exhibit 10.3   

Amended
and Restated effective  

  January 1,
2008  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(K) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN   

SECTION 1  

  INTRODUCTION  

1-1.             PURPOSE.  This Abbott
Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan (the  Plan ) is being established by
Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) to provide eligible management employees of
Abbott an opportunity to accumulate capital for their retirement or other
termination of employment in excess of the contributions allowed under the
Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan ( Stock Plan ). 

1-2.             EFFECTIVE DATE; GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS. 
The Plan became effective as of October 1, 1993 and is hereby
amended and restated, effective as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with
the requirements of Section 409A ( Code Section 409A ) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ).  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the
contrary, any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1,
2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to
participants who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts )
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as
in effect on December 31, 2004, provided that the provisions of the Plan,
as amended effective December 9, 2005 in accordance with Code Section 409A,
shall also apply to Grandfathered Amounts. 
Except as expressly provided above or elsewhere herein, amendments made
to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not
affect the Grandfathered Amounts.  The
terms and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A
attached hereto. 

1-3.             ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan shall
be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by
the Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board of Directors ). 

SECTION 2  

  ELIGIBILITY
AND PARTICIPATION  

2-1.             PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE. 
Participation in the Plan shall be limited to employees who are serving
as corporate officers of Abbott as of October 1, 1993 or who become
corporate officers thereafter. The term  corporate officer  for purposes of the
Plan shall mean an individual elected an officer of Abbott by its Board of
Directors (or designated as such for purposes of the Plan by the Committee),
but shall not include assistant officers. In the event an employee should cease
to be a corporate officer of Abbott due to demotion or otherwise while
remaining in the employ of Abbott, (a) such employee s elective deferral
in effect for such year shall remain irrevocable, (b) Abbott s matching
contributions under Section 4 shall immediately cease and (c) such
employee shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the end
of such calendar year.  In the event an
employee should cease to be a corporate officer of Abbott due to termination of
employment, such employee shall cease to be eligible to 

participate in the Plan and
any contributions then being made on behalf of such employee shall immediately
cease.  

2-2.             PARTICIPANT.  An eligible
employee may elect to participate in the Plan by electing to have contributions
made on the employee s behalf as provided in Section 5. 

SECTION 3  

  EMPLOYEE
CONTRIBUTIONS  

3-1.             ALLOWABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.  An
eligible employee may elect to have his employer make  pre-tax contributions 
on his behalf in an amount not greater than 18% in total of his compensation in
any calendar year for services rendered to his employer. A pre-tax contribution
made by an employer on behalf of a participant shall reduce the participant s
compensation at the time of payment of such compensation. Each election
hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be in multiples of 1% of compensation. 

3-2.             COMPENSATION.  A participant s  compensation 
shall have the same meaning as that term is used in subsection 7-2 of the Stock
Plan. 

3-3.             MAXIMUM EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS. 
Notwithstanding subsection 3-1, in no event shall the sum of: 

(a)              the participant s total contributions, pre-tax contributions,
supplemental deposits and supplemental pre-tax contributions made under the
Stock Plan; plus 

(b)              the participant s total pre-tax contributions made under the Plan; 

for any calendar year,
exceed 18% of the employee s compensation for such year.  In the event the limitation described in this
subsection 3-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s pre-tax
contributions made under this Plan shall be reduced until the limit is not
exceeded.  

3-4.             CHANGE IN STOCK PLAN. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Sections 3-1 and
3-3 above, no action or inaction by an employee under the Stock Plan may result
in a change in amounts contributed to the Plan in excess of the limit with
respect to elective deferrals under Section 402(g)(1)(A), (B) and (C) of
the Code in effect for the year in which the action or inaction occurs. 

SECTION 4  

  EMPLOYER
CONTRIBUTIONS  

For the calendar year ending
December 31, 1993, and for each subsequent calendar year, Abbott shall
make a contribution on behalf of each participant in the Plan who makes pre-tax
contributions ( basic contributions ) under the Plan during such year at the
rate of two percent (2%) of compensation in excess of, for calendar year 1993,
Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000), and for calendar years subsequent to
1993, the limit in effect for such year under Code Section 40l(a)(17).
Such employer contribution shall be in an amount equal to the contribution the
participant would have received under subsection 8-3 of the Stock Plan with  

2    

respect to such basic
contributions had such basic contributions been made under subsection 7-1 of
the Stock Plan.  

To the extent applicable, a
contribution made by a participant under subsection 5-4 shall be considered a
basic contribution for purposes of this Section 4 to the extent it
includes contributions at the rate of two percent (2%) of compensation for 1993
in excess of Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000).  

SECTION 5  

  ELECTIONS  

5-1.             ANNUAL ELECTIONS REQUIRED. 
Except as provided in Section 5-3, a participant shall elect to
make pre-tax contributions with respect to compensation earned in any calendar
year on or prior to December 31 st  of the prior calendar year.  Each such election shall be in writing, shall
be filed with the Committee, shall be effective only for the calendar year for
which made and shall be irrevocable.  An
employee who fails to make a timely election under this subsection 5-1 for a
calendar year may not contribute to the Plan during the following year. 

5-2.             [Section intentionally omitted.] 

5-3.             NEWLY ELIGIBLE AND NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES.  A newly hired corporate officer described in Section 2-1
shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month
next following the month after the individual s date of hire;  provided ,
that in no event may such individual begin to participate in the Plan later
than 90 days following his or her date of hire. 
An eligible employee described in the preceding sentence (who was not
eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the
Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) shall make the election described
in Section 5-1 within thirty (30) days of the date on which he first
becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any
such election shall become effective for compensation earned no earlier than
the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the
Committee and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the calendar year.  Any other newly eligible employee shall make
the election described in Section 5-1 no later than December 31 st  of the year in which such
employee first becomes eligible under the Plan. 
Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned in the
calendar year following the year in which the election is made. 

5-4.             SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION FOR 1993. 
Employees who are serving as corporate officers of Abbott and who have
established  Grantor Trusts  under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management
Incentive Plan ( MIP ) as of October 1, 1993, may elect to make a lump-sum
contribution based on compensation earned during the period of January 1,
1993 through September 30, 1993 (the  Make-Up Period ) by filing an
election with the Administrator and tendering payment in cash to such Grantor
Trust of the amount of the contribution, not later than October 31,
1993.  Any such contribution shall not
exceed the maximum contribution allowed under subsection 3-3 based on the
employee s Stock Plan contributions made, and compensation earned, during the
Make-Up Period. 

5-5.             GRANTOR TRUST ELECTION.  At the
time of the annual elections described in subsection 5-1, each participant may
elect to have his pre-tax and employer contributions for the following year
deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant under the 

3    

circumstances and on the
terms described in subsection 6-1, rather than defer such contributions under
subsection 5-1.  Any such election shall
be irrevocable and shall apply to all pre-tax contributions made during, and employer
contributions made for, such calendar year on behalf of such participant.  If the participant fails to make an election
under this subsection 5-5, the participant s pre-tax contributions made during,
and employer contribution made for, such calendar year shall be retained by
Abbott and shall not be deposited in a Grantor Trust in the future.  In no event shall such contributions be paid
to the Grantor Trust later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month
period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  

SECTION 6  

  FUNDING
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  

6-1.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE DEPOSITED IN GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions which the participant has filed an election under
subsection 5-5 shall be deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the
participant, as described in subsection 6-3, provided such trust is in a form
which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust attached
to this Plan as Exhibit B. 

6-2.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE RETAINED BY ABBOTT. 
Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for
which the participant has not filed an election under subsection 5-5 shall be
retained by Abbott and credited to a Deferred Account established under
subsection 7-1. 

6-3.             AFTER ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANTOR TRUST. 
After a Grantor Trust has been established by a participant under
subsection 6-1, all pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made
thereafter for which the participant has filed an election under subsection
5-5, shall be deposited in such Grantor Trust (less the aggregate federal,
state and local individual income and employment taxes (determined under
subsection 8-5) attributable to such contributions). Such deposits shall be
made as soon as practicable after the last complete payroll period of the
calendar quarter in which the contributions are made.  The appropriate aggregate federal, state and
local individual income and employment taxes attributable to the contributions
shall be paid directly to the participant. 
In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust or the
participant later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period , as
such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A). 

6-4.             [Section intentionally omitted.] 

6-5.             ELIMINATION OF GRANTOR TRUST FUNDING THRESHOLD.  Notwithstanding anything contained in the
Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1, 2005, the Grantor Trust
established by the participant shall be funded in accordance with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended. 

6-6.             UTILIZATION OF TRANSITION RELIEF UNDER SECTION 409A OF THE
CODE.  Notwithstanding anything contained
in the Plan to the contrary, pursuant to Q A-20 of Internal Revenue Service
Notice 2005-1 (the  Notice ), Abbott shall cause the amount of all pre-tax and
employer contributions and all associated earnings, including guaranteed rate
payments, for the periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2005 for each
participant who has made a 

4    

Grantor Trust election under
subsection 5-5, to the extent not previously contributed to a Grantor Trust
established by the participant, to be deposited in such Grantor Trust on or
prior to December 31, 2005.  Such
contribution is intended to result in a partial termination of participation in
the Plan as permitted by the Notice. 
Each participant who has established a Grantor Trust and who receives
such contribution shall include the full amount of such Grantor Trust
contribution in the participant s income in 2005.  

SECTION 7  

  ACCOUNTING  

7-1.             SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee
shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to
subsection 5-1 or 5-5 as follows: 

(a)              The Committee shall maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each
participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her
pre-tax contributions under subsection 5-1. 
The Deferred Account shall be comprised of any pre-tax contributions
made on behalf of the participant under subsection 3-1 and any other
allocations made on behalf of the participant under Section 4, in each
case, for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-5,
and any adjustments made pursuant to subsection 7-2. 

(b)              The Committee shall maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account 
and an  After-Tax Account , in the name of each participant who has declined to
defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her pre-tax and
employer contributions deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to
subsection 5-5.  The Pre-Tax Account
shall consist of the aggregate of all pre-tax contributions contemplated by
subsection 3-1, whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or made in
cash to the participant, and any adjustments in accordance with subsection
7-3.  The After-Tax Account shall consist
of employer contributions deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash
according to subsection 5-5 and any adjustments made in accordance with
subsection 7-4. 

7-2.             ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. 
No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s
Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows: 

(a)              FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the
participant during that year pursuant to subsections 7-11 or 7-12; 

(b)              NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions made on behalf of such participant for that year for
which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-5; and 

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that
year pursuant to subsection 7-5. 

7-3.             ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS. 
No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s
Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows: 

5    

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to
receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the
distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate
amounts allocated according to subsection 5-5 had instead been deferred under
subsection 5-1; 

(b)              NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are
paid to the participant (including any contributions paid to the participant s
Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5-5; 

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that
year pursuant to subsection 7-5. 

7-4.             ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS. 
No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s
After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows: 

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a
benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as
provided by subsection 7-16 which represents the distribution for such year; 

(b)              NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and
employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are
deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-5; 

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned
for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5. 

7-5.             INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS. 

(a)              No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s
Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with
interest ( Interest ) at the following rate: 

(i)       the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by the Wall
Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on
the first business day of January and the last business day of each month
of the calendar year; plus 

(ii)      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points. 

(b)              No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s
After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth
above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state
and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in
accordance with subsection 8-5 (the  After-Tax Interest )). 

(c)              The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited
on the conditions established by the Committee. 

6    

7-6.             GUARANTEED RATE PAYMENTS.  In
addition to any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant for any
calendar year pursuant to section 4, Abbott shall also make a payment to a
participant s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each year in
which the Grantor Trust is in effect. 
The Guaranteed Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of  the participant s  Net Interest Accrual  (as
defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the
year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of
the following calendar year. A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is
an amount equal to: the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s
After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 7-5. 

7-7.             GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each
participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments
specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established,
may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect
until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided
further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions
of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit
B. 

7-8.             DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES. 
Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each
participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary
designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection 7-6, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary
beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or
beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account
under the Plan.  Beneficiaries may be a
natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the
legal representative of an estate.  Any
such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such
beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary,
upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of
the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to
the designation of beneficiaries are as follows: 

(a)              A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further
beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next
preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so
provided in writing; and 

(b)              A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or
beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to
receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or
estate of which it is a fiduciary. 

Any beneficiary designation
or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised
only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation
or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of Abbott during such
person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased
nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as
provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no
beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the
Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining
from time to time to either:  

7    

(i)       any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving
spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and
in such proportions as the Committee determines; or 

(ii)      the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or
deceased beneficiary as the case may be. 

7-9.             NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their
beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and
other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred
or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this section shall not
be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a
beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 7-6.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a
participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or
beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the
participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary,
or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the
participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines. 

7-10.           PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any employer contribution made on behalf of a
participant in the Plan and any interest credited with respect thereto will be
paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was
employed during the calendar year for which any amount was contributed, and for
that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more
employers during any calendar year the amount allocated under this Plan for
that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in
proportion to the respective amounts of compensation paid by each of them in
that calendar year. 

7-11.           MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. 
Subject to subsection 7-12, a participant shall elect to receive payment
of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a
minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his election
for such calendar year under subsection 5-1. 
Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first
business day of January of the year following the year in which the
participant incurs a termination of employment. 

7-12.           PAYMENT UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL. Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of
employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years
following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting
a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is
defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a
participant whose contributions under the Plan are deferred in accordance with
subsection 5-1, the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred
Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days
following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect
to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are made pursuant to
subsection 5-5, (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid
contributions under subsection 5-5 (if any) for the fiscal year in which the
termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed
Rate Payment under subsection 7-6 attributable to the portion of the year
elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s
Grantor 

8    

Trust in a lump sum within
thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  

7-13.           CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in
Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following
dates: 

(a)              the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities
beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott
or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a
Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of
paragraph (c) below; or 

(b)              the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date
hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a
director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or
threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent
solicitation, relating to the election of directors of Abbott) whose
appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by
Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election
was previously so approved or recommended; or 

(c)              the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of
Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any other
corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately
following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately
prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of
Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the
entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the
ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of
Abbott outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing
to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting
securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with
the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an
employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of
the combined voting power of the securities of Abbott or such surviving entity
or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or
consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a
recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or
becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott
(not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any
securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or
more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities; or 

(d)              the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of complete
liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an agreement for
the sale or 

9    

disposition by Abbott of all
or substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by
Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least
50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue
of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions
immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of Abbott
immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to
have    substantially the same
proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the
assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of
transactions.  

For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate 
shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities
pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned,
directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  

7-14.           POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential
Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances
described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided,
however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than
the occurrence of a Change in Control): 

(a)              Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result
in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in
Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the
expiration or other termination of all such agreements. 

(b)              Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through
(iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to
consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in
Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this
paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention,
or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable
chance that such actions would be consummated. 

10    

(c)           Any
Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of
Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common
stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding
securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person
which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  

(d)           The
Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this
Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential
Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist
upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise
to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control
have expired or no longer exist.  

7-15.        PROHIBITION
AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of
subsections 7-12, 7-13, 7-14 and this subsection 7-15 may not be amended or
deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during
the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period
beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

7-16.        ADMINISTRATOR S
CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate
the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in
which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the
amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 7-3(a), by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax
Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which
is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  

SECTION 8 
MISCELLANEOUS  

8-1.          RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and
regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and
efficient administration of the Plan.  

8-2.          TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary
or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local
tax, attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan after giving the
person entitled to receive such amount notice as far in advance as practicable,
and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy
such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  

8-3.          RIGHTS
OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of
participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected
by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan.
Nothing contained in the Plan shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to
segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment
of any amounts which may have been deferred. 
The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established pursuant to
subsection 7-1 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no
trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be
implied.  Participant s rights shall be
limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are
contemplated   

11     

by the Plan. 
Any decision made by the Committee which is within his sole and
uncontrolled discretion, shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons
whomsoever.  

8-4.          TAX
GROSS UP.  In addition to the employer
contribution provided under Section 4, each participant who has
established a Grantor Trust (or, if the participant is deceased, the
beneficiary designated under the participant s Grantor Trust) shall be entitled
to a Tax Gross Up payment for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in
effect.  Payment of the Tax Gross Up (as
defined below) shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as Abbott
shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets, no later than
the end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related
taxes.  The  Tax Gross Up  shall equal:  

(a)           the
amount necessary to compensate the participant (or beneficiary) for the net increase
in the participant s (or beneficiary s) federal, state and local income taxes
as a result of the inclusion in his taxable income of the income of the
participant s Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate Payment for that year; plus  

(b)           an
amount necessary to compensate the participant (or beneficiary) for the net
increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a result of the inclusion
in his taxable income of any payment made pursuant to this subsection 8-4.  

8-5.          INCOME
TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of
Sections 7 and 8, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be
the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the
calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and
state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of
individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s
residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax
benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses. For purposes of Sections
7 and 8, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest
marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the
calendar year in which a calculation under those sections is to be made.  

8-6.          GENDER.  For purposes of the Plan, words in the
masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the singular
shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  

8-7.          MANNER
OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of
the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may
act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any
instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to
sign.  The Committee from time to time
may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection
with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the
Committee may select.  Except as
otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the
Plan will be paid by Abbott.  Any notice
required to be given to, or any document required to be filed with the
Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to
the Secretary of Abbott.  

8-8.          RELIANCE
UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and
the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any
Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants,
and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the
Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part,
excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they
be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  

12     

8-9.          CHANGE
OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No
change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any
period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict
compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-2(b), to the extent subject thereto.  

8-10.        SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that
the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted
in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect
until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the
extent permitted by Code Section 409A). 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all
purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a
termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from
service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent
required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A
and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under
the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the
date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the
expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to
the rate of Interest provided in subsection 7-5(a) (to the extent that
such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 7-6),
from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid
until the actual date of payment.  In addition,
for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment
shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  

SECTION 9 
AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF 
CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS  

The Plan will be effective from its effective
date until terminated by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to
amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time. No such
amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent
obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such
amendment or termination.  

13    

EXHIBIT A   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(k) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN   

[Abbott Laboratories 401(k)
Supplemental Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott
Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 9, 2005.]  

EXHIBIT B   

IRREVOCABLE
GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   

THIS AGREEMENT, made this
           day of
                        ,
    , by and between
                        
of
                        ,
Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago,
Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and
maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the
Abbott Laboratories 40l(k) Supplemental Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time;  

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  

ARTICLE I 
INTRODUCTION  

I-1.          NAME.
This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to
as the  ________ Grantor Trust .  

I-2.          THE
TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any
date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  

I-3.          STATUS
OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be
irrevocable. The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections
671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed
accordingly.  

I-4.          THE
ADMINISTRATOR. Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator 
of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under
this agreement as described below. Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without
further inquiry or verification.  

I-5.          ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and
obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by
the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any
proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this
agreement.  

ARTICLE II 
DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND  

II-1.         DEFERRED
ACCOUNT.  The administrator shall
maintain a  deferred account  under the trust. As of the end of each calendar
year, the administrator shall charge the deferred account with all
distributions made from such account during that year; and credit such account
with income and realized gains and charge such account with expenses and
realized losses for the year.  

II-2.         DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to
the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the
grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a
subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each
year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a
portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance
of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of
the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the
amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if
then living, either in a lump-sum payable as soon as practicable following the
settlement date, or in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each
installment computed by one of the following methods:  

(a)                                      The amount of each installment shall
be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as
of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided
by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the
net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding
the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  

(b)                                     The amount of each installment shall
be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the
end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number
of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the
number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred
account.  

(c)                                      Each installment (after the first
installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum
of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the
rate determined under the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan,
compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred
account for the preceding year.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final
installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall
equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.
The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or
before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date
occurs, may select either the lump-sum or an installment payment method and, if
an installment method is selected, may select both the period (which may not be
less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s
settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be
made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by
the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten
years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method
described in subparagraph (a) next above. 
Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-2 shall be made as of January 1
of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the
grantor s settlement date occurs.  The
administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment
distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully
protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  

2    

II-3.         DISTRIBUTIONS
AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor,
from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently
or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the
principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof
shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s
spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s
death.  If the grantor directs an
installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts
remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump
sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method
of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be
distributed in a lump sum to such trust. 
Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which
the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are
being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income
earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual
installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income
by written notice to the trustee.  Each
designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall
be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the
grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails
to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump
sum. If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on
the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund
in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  

II-4.         FACILITY
OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a
distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion,
is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial
affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal
representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s
benefit.  Any distribution made in
accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge
of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  

II-5.         PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement,
on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to
die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this
instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in
the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  

ARTICLE III 
MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND  

III-1.        GENERAL
POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect
to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to
those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  

(a)           Subject
to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to
sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with
all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such
terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  

3    

(b)           To
retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest
and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between
principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its
agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund
which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or
retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting
risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  

(c)           To
deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank
acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in
savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of
interest in any such depositary.  

(d)           To
invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any
common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the
trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  

(e)           To
borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from
time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to
mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  

(f)            To
retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for
interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final
adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate
release is obtained.  

(g)           To
begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the
administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or
required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  

(h)           To
compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  

(i)            To
give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose
(alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations,
foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial
structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or
conversion rights.  

(j)            To
hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or
in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  

(k)           To
divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly
in kind.  

(l)            To
pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of
any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to
require before making any payment such release or other document from any
lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the
trustee considers necessary for its protection.  

4    

(m)          To
deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate
or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the
grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even
though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity,
without liability for any loss that may result.  

(n)           To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to
act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or
all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act,
and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or
the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers,
duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any
action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  

(o)           To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as
custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have
such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the
trustee.  

(p)           To
employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them
such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be
protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so
employed without court action.  

(q)           To
perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate
for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  

III-2.        PRINCIPAL
AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the
trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be
accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The
grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held
by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  

III-3.        STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly
to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to
each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement
(or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all
investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the
trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value
thereof at the end of such period.  

III-4.        COMPENSATION
AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs,
charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including
compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants
and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection
with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from
the trust fund.  

5    

ARTICLE IV 
GENERAL PROVISIONS  

IV-1.        INTERESTS
NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the
grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to
their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily
sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  

IV-2.        DISAGREEMENT
AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement
between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any
accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by
any proper court.  

IV-3.        TRUSTEE S
OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility
is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine
whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the
trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution.  The trustee shall be
protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II
without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the
trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without
written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms
of this agreement.  

IV-4.        GOOD
FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or
non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on
all persons.  No one shall be obliged to
see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the
trustee.  The certificate of the trustee
that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons
dealing with the trustee.  

IV-5.        WAIVER
OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under
this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

IV-6.        CONTROLLING
LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois
shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this
agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration,
investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  

IV-7.        SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all
persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and
legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  

ARTICLE V 
CHANGES IN TRUSTEE  

V-1.         RESIGNATION
OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may
resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the
administrator and the grantor.  The
administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the
grantor.  

V-2.         APPOINTMENT
OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator
shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by
written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice
thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then
entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as
defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  

6     

V-3.         DUTIES
OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall
furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of
its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each
successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its
predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor
trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such
title of record in the successor trustee. 
Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this
agreement as if originally named trustee. 
No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure
to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a
successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered
by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such
acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  

ARTICLE VI 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  

VI-1.                           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this
trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living,
otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or
distributions hereunder, except as follows:  

(a)                                      The duties and liabilities of the
trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  

(b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as
to make the trust revocable.  

VI-2.                           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all
rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or
reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall
continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the
trustee as provided in Article II.  

*      *      *  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the
trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor  

The Northern Trust Company, as Trustee  

By  

Its  

7    

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 3
 a2196380zex-10_4.htm
 EX-10.4

Exhibit 10.4   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN    

(As amended and
restated effective January 1, 2008)   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   

Section 1 
INTRODUCTION   

1-1.                                 On September 9, 1977, December 14,
1979 and February 10, 1984 the Board of Directors of Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott )
adopted certain resolutions providing for payment of (i) pension benefits
calculated under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan ( Annuity Plan )
in excess of those which may be paid under that plan under the limits imposed
by Section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) and (ii) the additional
pension benefits that would be payable under the Annuity Plan if deferred awards
under the Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan were included in  final
earnings  as defined in the Annuity Plan. 
The ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN (this  Supplemental
Plan ) clarified, restated and superseded the prior resolutions and is hereby
amended and restated in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  

1-2.                                 The Supplemental Plan shall apply to
employees of Abbott and its subsidiaries and affiliates existing as of the date
of adoption of the Supplemental Plan or thereafter created or acquired.  (Abbott and each of such subsidiaries and
affiliates are hereinafter referred to as an  employer  and collectively as the
 employers ).  

1-3.                                 All benefits provided under the
Supplemental Plan shall be provided from the general assets of the employers
and not from any trust fund or other designated asset.  All participants in the Supplemental Plan
shall be general creditors of the employers with no priority over other
creditors.  

1-4.                                 The Supplemental Plan shall be
administered by the Abbott Laboratories Employee Benefit Board of Review
appointed and acting under the Annuity Plan ( Board of Review ).  Except as stated below, the Board of Review
shall perform all powers and duties with respect to the Supplemental Plan,
including the power to direct payment of benefits, allocate costs among
employers, adopt amendments and determine questions of interpretation.  The Board of Directors of Abbott (the  Board
of Directors ) shall have the sole authority to terminate the Supplemental
Plan.  

1-5.                                 Notwithstanding anything in the
Supplemental Plan to the contrary, any amounts under the Supplemental Plan that
were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance
with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who retired before January 1,
2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
the Supplemental Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31,
2004.  Amendments made to the
Supplemental Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall
not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the
amendment.  The terms and conditions
applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Appendix A attached
hereto.  

Section 2 
ERISA ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

2-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 2
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension under that plan, on or after September 9, 1977.  

2-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant whose
retirement or vested pension under that plan would otherwise be limited by Section 415,
Internal Revenue Code, shall receive a supplemental pension under this
Supplemental Plan in an amount, which, when added to his or her Annuity Plan
pension (calculated as if such pension had been payable based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4), will equal the amount
the participant would be entitled to under the Annuity Plan as in effect from
time to time, calculated as if such pension had been payable based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, without regard to the
limitations imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code.  

Section 3 
1986 TAX REFORM ACT SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

3-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 3
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension under that plan, after December 31, 1988.  

3-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant shall
receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount
determined as follows:  

(a)                                           The supplemental pension shall be
the difference, if any, between:  

i.                               the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established
hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by
subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section  and  

ii.                            the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the
limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s
 final earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, had included compensation in
excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code,
and any  pre-tax contributions  made by the participant under the Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental 401(k) Plan.  

2     

Section 4   

   DEFERRED
COMPENSATION PLAN ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

4-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 4
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension, under that plan, on or after January 1, 2002 and who
made a Deferral Election under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation
Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ) with respect to any calendar month
during the one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months immediately preceding
retirement or termination of employment.  

4-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant shall
receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount
determined as follows:  

(a)                                           The supplemental pension shall be
the difference, if any, between:  

i.                               the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established
hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by
subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2 and Section 
and  

ii.                            the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the
limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s
 base earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, included deferrals made under
the Deferred Compensation Plan and any compensation in excess of the limits imposed
by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code.  

Section 5 
DEFERRED MIP ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

5-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 5
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who retire, or terminate
with a vested pension, under that plan, on or after December 14, 1979 and
who were awarded Management Incentive Plan awards for any calendar year during
the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or
termination of employment.  

5-2.                                 Each Annuity Plan participant shall
receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount
determined as follows:  

(a)                                           The supplemental pension shall be
the difference, if any, between:  

i.                               the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan based on the distribution rules established
hereunder and the pension form selected by the  

3     

participant as
permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2,
Section 3, and Section  and  

ii.                            the hypothetical monthly benefit
that would have been payable under the Annuity Plan, calculated based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without regard to the
limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) if the participant s
 final earnings , as defined in the Annuity Plan, were one-sixtieth of the sum
of:  

A.  the
participant s total  basic earnings  (excluding any payments under the
Management Incentive Plan or any Division Incentive Plan) received in the sixty
consecutive calendar months for which his basic earnings (excluding any
payments under the Management Incentive Plan or any Division Incentive Plan) were
highest within the last one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months
immediately preceding his retirement or termination of employment; and  

B.  the
amount of the participant s total awards under the Management Incentive Plan
and any Division Incentive Plan (whether paid immediately or deferred) made for
the five consecutive calendar years during the ten consecutive calendar years
ending with the year of retirement or termination for which such amount is the
greatest and (for participants granted Management Incentive Plan awards for
less than five consecutive calendar years during such ten year period) which
include all Management Incentive Plan awards granted for consecutive calendar
years within such ten year period.  

(b)                                     That portion of any Management
Incentive Plan award which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
of Abbott ( Committee ) has determined shall be excluded from the participant s
 basic earnings  shall be excluded from the calculation of  final earnings  for
purposes of this subsection 5-2.   Final
earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2 shall include any compensation in
excess of the limits imposed by Section 401(a)(17), Internal Revenue Code.  

(c)                                      In the event the period described in
subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B) is the final five calendar years of employment
and a Management Incentive Plan award is made to the participant subsequent to
retirement for the participant s final calendar year of employment, the
supplemental pension shall be adjusted by adding such new award and subtracting
a portion of the earliest Management Incentive Plan award included in the
calculation, from the amount determined under subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B).  The portion subtracted shall be equal to that  

4     

portion of the
participant s final calendar year of employment during which the participant
was employed by Abbott.  

Section 6 
CORPORATE OFFICER ANNUITY PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT   

6-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 6
shall apply to all participants in the Annuity Plan who are corporate officers
of Abbott as of September 30, 1993 or who become corporate officers
thereafter, and who retire, or terminate with a vested pension under that plan
on or after September 30, 1993.  The
term  corporate officer  for purposes of this Supplemental Plan shall mean an
individual elected an officer of Abbott by its Board of Directors (or
designated as such for purposes of this Section 6 by the Compensation
Committee), but shall not include assistant officers.  

6-2.                                 Subject to the limitations and
adjustments described below, each participant described in subsection 6-1 shall
receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan commencing
on the date determined in accordance with subsection 8-2 and payable as a life
annuity, equal to 6/10 of 1 percent (.006) of the participant s final earnings
(as determined under subsection 5-2) for each of the first twenty years of the
participant s benefit service (as defined in the Annuity Plan) occurring after
the participant s attainment of age 35.  

6-3.                                 In no event shall the sum of (a) the
participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under
subsection 6-2 and (b) of the participant s aggregate percentage of final
earnings calculated under subsection 5-1 of the Annuity Plan, excluding
5-1(a)(ii)(B), exceed the maximum aggregate percentage of final earnings
allowed under subsection 5-1 (also
excluding 5-1(a)(ii)(B)) of the Annuity Plan (without regard to any
limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code), as in effect on the date of the
participant s retirement or termination. 
In the event the limitation described in this subsection 6-3 would
be exceeded for any participant, the participant s aggregate percentage
calculated under subsection 6-2 shall be reduced until the limit is not
exceeded.  

6-4.                                 Benefit service occurring between
the date a participant ceases to be a corporate officer of Abbott and the date
the participant again becomes a corporate officer of Abbott shall be
disregarded in calculating the participant s aggregate percentage under
subsection 6-2.  

6-5.                                 Any supplemental pension otherwise
due a participant under this Section 6 shall be reduced by the amount (if
any) by which:  

(a)                                      the hypothetical benefits that would
be payable to such participant under the Annuity Plan, based on the
distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by
the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, and this Supplemental
Plan exceeds  

(b)                                     the hypothetical maximum benefit
that would be payable to the participant under the Annuity Plan, calculated
based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form
selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, (without
regard to the limits imposed by Section 415, Internal Revenue Code) based
on the participant s final earnings (as  

5     

determined
under subsection 5-2), if the participant had accrued the maximum benefit
service recognized by the Annuity Plan.  

6-6.                                 Any supplemental pension due a
participant under this Section 6 shall be actuarially adjusted as provided
in the Annuity Plan to reflect the pension form selected by the participant as
permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 and the participant s age at commencement
of the pension as provided in Section 7.  

Section 7 
CORPORATE OFFICER ANNUITY PLAN 
SUPPLEMENTAL EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT   

7-1.                                 The benefits described in this Section 7
shall apply to all persons described in subsection 6-1.  

7-2.                                 The supplemental pension due under
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall
be reduced in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5-3 and
5-6 of the Annuity Plan for each month by which its commencement date precedes
the last day of the month in which the participant will attain age 60.  No reduction will be made for the period
between the last day of the months the participant will attain age 60 and age
62.  

7-3.                                 Each participant described in
subsection 7-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this
Supplemental Plan equal to any hypothetical reduction made in such participant s
Annuity Plan pension in accordance with the rules provided in subsections
5-3 or 5-6 of the Annuity Plan for the period between the last day of the
months the participant will attain age 60 and age 62, calculated as if the
participant had commenced receipt of the participant s Annuity Plan pension on
the same date on which the participant commences receipt of the participant s
supplemental pension based on the distribution rules established hereunder
and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections
8-3 and 8-4.  

Section 8 
MISCELLANEOUS   

8-1.                                 For purposes of this Supplemental
Plan, the term  Management Incentive Plan  shall mean the Abbott Laboratories
1971 Management Incentive Plan, the Abbott Laboratories 1981 Management
Incentive Plan and all successor plans to those plans.  

8-2.                                 The monthly vested supplemental
pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall commence to be paid to
the participant or his or her beneficiary on the last day of the month
following the month in which:  

(a)                                      For the participant hired before
2004, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 50 and the
date such participant s employment is terminated; or  

(b)                                     For the participant hired after
2003, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 55 and the
date such participant s employment is terminated.  

6     

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subsection 8-2, any
participant eligible to make an election under Section 9 may make such
election with respect to any accruals for services performed in the year
following the year such election is made.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of subsection 8-2, in the
event that the present value of participant s supplemental pension under
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 does not exceed in the aggregate $25,000 as of the
commencement date of the pension payable to such participant or his or her
beneficiary, and payment of such supplemental pension has not been previously
made under Section 9, the present value of such supplemental pension shall
be paid to such participant in a lump-sum on such commencement date.  

8-3.                                 Except as otherwise specifically
provided, payment of the monthly vested supplemental pension described in
Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 shall be made to a participant as follows:  

(a)                                       Life Annuity   . 
A participant who is not legally married on the date as of which such
payments commence shall receive a monthly retirement income or monthly deferred
vested benefit in accordance with the plan payable on a life annuity basis,
with the last payment to be made for the month in which his or her death
occurs.  

(b)                                      50% Joint and Survivor Annuity   . 
A participant who is legally married on the date as of which such
payments commence shall receive a 50% joint and survivor annuity which is
actuarially equivalent to the amount of monthly retirement income or monthly
deferred vested benefit otherwise payable to him or her in accordance with the
plan on a life annuity basis. Such joint and survivor annuity shall consist of
a reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit
continuing during the participant s lifetime, and if the participant s spouse
is living at the date of the participant s death, payment of one-half of such
reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit to such
spouse until the spouse s death occurs, with the last payment to be made for
the month of the death of the last to die of the participant and his or her
spouse. The joint and survivor annuity payable hereunder to or with respect to
a participant who retires on a late retirement date shall be computed as if
such participant had retired on his or her normal retirement date using for the
age of his or her spouse as of his or her late retirement date, that spouse s
age as of his or her normal retirement date.  

8-4.                                 In lieu of the form and amount of supplemental
pension benefit specified in subsection 8-3, a participant may elect, prior to
commencement, a supplemental pension benefit, which is actuarially equivalent
to the form of payment specified in subsection 8-3(a), in the annuity forms
permitted by the Board of Review, provided that the scheduled date for the
first annuity payment is not changed as a result of such election.  For purposes of this provision, the term  actuarially
equivalent  shall have the meaning provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(A),
applying reasonable actuarial methods and assumptions, which must be the same
for each annuity payment option and otherwise comply with the rules provided
by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  

7    

An election under this subsection 8-4 must be
in writing, signed by the participant, and filed with the Board of Review at
such time and in such manner as the Board of Review shall determine; and will
be effective only if the participant s spouse, if any, consents to the election
in writing, and such consent acknowledges the effect of the election and is
witnessed by a plan representative or a notary public. In any case where a
participant elects an optional form of benefit, the option shall be designed so
that more than 50 percent of the actuarial reserve required to provide the
participant s monthly vested supplemental pension benefit in the normal form
will be applied to provide the participant s benefits under the option during
the period of the participant s life expectancy. Payment of an optional form of
benefit will commence no later than the date on which the participant s monthly
supplemental pension benefit would otherwise commence. An election under this
subs 8-4 may not be changed after payment of the participant s supplemental
pension benefit has commenced.  

8-5.          Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, if a participant terminates
employment within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in
Control, the present value of his or her supplemental pension under Sections 2,
3, 4 and 5, but excluding any amounts with respect to which an election under Section 9
has been made, whether or not then payable or vested) shall be paid to such
participant in a lump sum, calculated using reasonable actuarial assumptions
and methods, within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of
employment; provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change
in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-3(i)(5).  The supplemental pension
under Section 2 shall be computed using as the applicable limit under Section 415
of the Internal Revenue Code, such limit as is in  effect on the termination date and based on
the assumption that the participant will receive his or her supplemental
pension in the form of a straight life annuity with no ancillary benefits.  The present values of the supplemental
pensions under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be computed as of the date of
payment using an interest rate equal to the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation interest rate applicable to an immediate annuity, as in effect on
the date of payment.  

8-6.          For
purposes of subsection 8-5, a  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have
occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  

(a)                                      the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of
the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding
any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction
described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  

(b)                                       the date the following individuals
cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then
serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors
and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office
is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but
not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of
Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
election by Abbott s shareholders  

8     

was approved or
recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still
in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment,
election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended;
or  

(c)                                      the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a
merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals
who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at
least a majority of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such
merger or consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott
or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the
securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or
consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar
transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities
Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott
or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  

(d)                                     the date the shareholders of Abbott
approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is
consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or
substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by
Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least
50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or
series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate
ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of
Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  

9    

For purposes of this Supplemental Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the
meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the
Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities
pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned,
directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  

8-7.          POTENTIAL
CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change
in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described
in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that
a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the
occurrence of a Change in Control):  

(a)                                      Abbott enters into an agreement, the
consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control,
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall
cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  

(b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination
by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions
would be consummated.  

(c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more
of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined
voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any
securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired
directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  

(d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a
resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential
Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described
in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the
Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing
for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer
exist.  

8-8.          The
provisions of subsections 8-5, 8-6, 8-7 and this subsection 8-8 may not be
amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Supplemental
Plan, (i) during  

10     

the
pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period
beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

8-9.          All
benefits due under this Supplemental Plan shall be paid by Abbott and Abbott
shall be reimbursed for such payments by the employee s employer.  In the event the employee is employed by more
than one employer, each employer shall reimburse Abbott in proportion to the
period of time the employee was employed by such employer, as determined by the
Board of Review in its sole discretion.  

8-10.        The
benefits under the Supplemental Plan are not in any way subject to the debts or
other obligations of the persons entitled to benefits and may not be
voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned.  

8-11.        Nothing
contained in this Supplemental Plan shall confer on any employee the right to
be retained in the employ of Abbott or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  

8-12.        Upon
adoption of this Supplemental Plan, the prior resolutions shall be deemed
rescinded.  

8-13.        A
participant shall not become vested in the participant s supplemental pension
under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 until the participant has attained sixty
(60) months of vesting service.  For
purposes of the Supplemental Plan, beginning January 1, 1987, a
participant shall be entitled to 1/12  th   of a year of vesting service for each calendar
month (or portion thereof) during which the participant is employed by an
employer; provided, however, that a participant employed by an employer on December 31,
1986 shall receive the greater of vesting service calculated in accordance with
the terms of the Annuity Plan in effect on December 31, 1986 or vesting
service calculated in accordance with the rule immediately above, for
service with an employer after 1986.  The
payments required by Section 8 or Section 9 of the Supplemental Plan
shall, in each case, relate only to the vested portion of a participant s
supplemental pension.  

8-14.        To
the extent applicable, it is intended that the Supplemental Plan comply with
the provisions of Code Section 409A. 
The Supplemental Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner
consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Supplemental Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force
and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be
retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, a participant shall not be considered to have terminated
employment with Abbott or any employer hereunder for purposes of the
Supplemental Plan and no payments shall be due under Supplemental Plan which
are payable upon the participant s termination of employment unless the
participant would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service 
from Abbott within the meaning of Section 409A.  To the extent required to avoid accelerated
taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable
guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to
the Supplemental Plan during the six-month period immediately following the
participant s termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first
business day after the date that is six months following the participant s
termination of employment (or upon the participant s death, if earlier), plus
interest thereon, at a rate equal to the applicable  Federal short-term rate 
(as defined in Section 1274(d) of the Code) for the month in which
such termination of employment  

11     

occurs
(to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant
under subsection 9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would
otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  With respect to expenses eligible for
reimbursement under the terms of the Supplemental Plan, (i) the amount of
such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect
the expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (ii) any
reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the
calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were
incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement
does not provide for a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  

Section 9 
ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAL PENSIONS   

9-1.          A
participant who is actively employed by Abbott as a corporate officer as of
December 31 of his or her first year as a corporate officer shall be entitled
to receive payment of the present value of the vested supplemental pension
described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 which accrues with respect to the
year and shall elect to receive such payment by either of the following
methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b)
current payment of a portion of such present value in cash for the participant
directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant, determined to be
substantially similar to the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Appendix
B, and current payment of the balance of such present value in cash directly to
the participant, provided that such payment made directly to the participant
shall be equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and
employment taxes attributable to the amount paid pursuant to this subsection
9-1(b) (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-12). The payment of any
amount provided under this subsection 9-1 shall be made to the Grantor Trust
established by the participant within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of
the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  

9-2.          If
the present value of a participant s vested and accrued supplemental pension
has been paid to the participant (including amounts paid to the participant s
Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsection 9-1 (either as in effect prior to January 1,
2005 that applied to corporate officers with a present value in excess of
$100,000, or as currently in effect for all corporate officers who are
participants as of the applicable December 31) then, with respect to each
subsequent year of active participation, as of that December 31, a
participant shall be entitled to a payment in an amount equal to (i) the
present value (as of that December 31) of the participant s vested
supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, less (ii) the
current value (as of that December 31) of the payments previously made to
the participant under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 (if any).  Each year a participant who is a corporate
officer may elect to receive payment of the amounts described in subparagraphs (i) and
(ii) above for the year by either of the following methods: (a) current
payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of a
portion of such amount in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust
established by the participant and current payment of the balance of such
amount in cash directly to the participant, provided that the payment made
directly to the participant shall equal the aggregate federal, state and local
individual income and employment taxes attributable to the amount paid pursuant
to this subsection 9-2(b) (as determined in accordance with subsection
9-12).  The payment of any amount
provided under this subsection  

12     

9-2
shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the
thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which
such present value is accrued.  No
payments shall be made under this subsection 9-2 as of any December 31
after the calendar year in which the participant retires or otherwise
terminates employment with Abbott.  

9-3.          Present
values for the purposes of subsections 9-1 and 9-2 shall be determined using
reasonable actuarial assumptions specified for this purpose by Abbott and
consistently applied in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  The  current
value  of the payments previously made to a participant under subsection 9-2
means the aggregate amount of such payments, with interest thereon (at the rate
specified in subsection 9.9).  For
purposes of subsections 9-4 and 9-5,  Taxes  with respect to any payment of
supplemental pension benefits under subsections 9-1 or 9-2, shall mean the
taxes which Abbott calculates will be incurred by the participant on the income
earned (i) on the payment (net of taxes) that is made pursuant to
subsections 9-1 or 9-2, (ii) on the corresponding payment(s) for
Taxes that are made pursuant to subsection 9-4 and, if applicable, 9-5 and (iii) on
the accumulated income earned on any of the payments covered by parts (i) and
(ii) hereof, during the life of such participant s Grantor Trust.  In calculating such Taxes, Abbott shall use
the aggregate of the current federal, state and local tax rates specified by
subsection 9-12.  

9-4.          As
a result of any payment made to a participant eligible for payments under this Article 9
for any calendar year pursuant to subsection 9-1 or 9-2, Abbott shall also make
a corresponding payment to such participant in the amount of the Taxes.  The payment for Taxes under this subsection
9-4 shall be made to the participant in the identical manner that the payment
under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 was made. 
For example, (a) if the participant elected to receive the payment
under subsection 9-1 directly in cash, then Abbott shall also pay the Taxes on
such payment in cash directly to the participant, and (b) if the
participant elected to receive the payment under subsection 9-1 into a Grantor
Trust established by the participant, then Abbott shall pay the Taxes on such
payment as follows: current payment of a portion of such Taxes in cash for such
participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by such participant, and current
payment of the balance of such Taxes in cash directly to such participant,
provided that the payment made directly to such participant shall equal the
aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the
amount paid pursuant to this subsection 9-4(b) (as determined in
accordance with subsection 9-12).  Such
amount shall be paid by Abbott directly to the participant in cash no later
than the end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related
taxes.  

9-5.  

(a)                                      In the event that Abbott has made
any payment for Taxes in a particular year under subsection 9-4 in cash
directly to the participant and there is a subsequent increase in the tax rates
for such participant in such year, Abbott shall make a further cash payment to
such participant in the amount of (a) the Taxes on the payments that were
made under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in cash directly to such participant
calculated using the actual tax rates for the year less (b) the amount of
such Taxes previously paid.  Such amount
shall be paid by Abbott directly to the participant in cash no later than the
end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related taxes.  

13     

(b)                                     In the event that Abbott has made
any payment for Taxes in a particular year under subsection 9-4 to the
participant s Grantor Trust, then Abbott shall as of December 31 of the
following year, make a further payment to the participant in the amount of (a) the
Taxes on the payments that were made under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 into the
participant s Grantor Trust and in cash directly to the participant calculated
using the actual tax rates for the year less (b) the amount of the Taxes
previously paid.  Such payment shall be
paid by Abbott as follows: the current payment of a portion of such amount in
cash directly to the participant s Grantor Trust and the current payment of the
balance of such amount in cash directly to such participant; provided, that the
payments made directly to such participant shall equal the aggregate federal,
state and local individual income taxes attributable to the amount paid
pursuant to this subsection 9-5 (as determined in accordance with subsection
9-12).  Such amount shall be paid by
Abbott directly to the participant in cash no later than the end of the
calendar year in which the participant remits the related taxes.  

9-6.          For
each participant whose Grantor Trust has received a payment pursuant to
subsections 9-4 or 9-5, Abbott, as the administrator of such Grantor Trust,
shall direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of
such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on trust
earnings for such year.  The taxes shall
be calculated by multiplying the income of the Grantor Trust by the aggregate
of the federal, state, and local tax rates (determined in accordance with
subsection 9-12).  

9-7.          Except
as provided in subsection 9-11, a participant shall be deemed to have
irrevocably waived and shall be foreclosed from any right to receive any
supplemental pension benefits on that portion of the supplemental pension that
the participant elects to be paid in cash under subsection 9-1 or 9-2.  A participant, who has elected to receive a
payment under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to a Grantor Trust, must establish such
trust in a form which Abbott determines to be substantially similar to the
trust attached to this Supplemental Plan as Appendix B.  If a participant fails to make an election
under subsection 9-1 or 9-2, or if a participant makes an election under
subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to receive payment in a Grantor Trust but fails to
establish a Grantor Trust, then payment shall be made in cash directly to the
participant.  

9-8.          Abbott
will establish and maintain a separate Supplemental Pension Account in the name
of each participant, a separate After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account in the
name of each participant, and a separate Tax Payment Account in the name of
each participant.  The Supplemental Pension
Account shall reflect any amounts:  (i) paid
to a participant (including amounts paid to a participant s Grantor Trust)
pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2; (ii) credited to such Account
pursuant to subsection 9-9; and (iii) disbursed to a participant for
supplemental pension benefits (or which would have been disbursed to a
participant if the participant had not elected to receive a cash disbursement
pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2). 
The After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall also reflect such
amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  The Tax Payment Account shall reflect any
amounts (i) paid to a participant (net of taxes) pursuant to subsections
9-4 and 9-5 and (ii) disbursed to a participant for the payment of taxes
pursuant to subsection 9-6.  The accounts
established pursuant to this subsection 9-8 are  

14     

for
the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship
with respect to such accounts is intended or should be implied.  

9-9.          As
of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Supplemental Pension Account
shall be credited with interest calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%)
per year.  Any amount so credited shall
be referred to as a participant s  Interest Accrual .  The calculation of the Interest Accrual shall
be based on the balance of the payments made pursuant to subsections 9-1 and
9-2 and any Interest Accrual thereon from previous years.  As of the end of each calendar year a participant s
After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest which
shall be referred to as the After-Tax Interest Accrual.   The  After-Tax Interest Accrual  shall be an amount equal to the
product of (a) the Interest Accrual credited to the participant s Supplemental
Pension Account for such year multiplied by (b) one minus the aggregate of the
federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate
(determined in accordance with subsection 9-12). 

9-10.        In
addition to any payment made to a participant for a calendar year pursuant to
subsections 9-1, 9-2, 9-4 and 9-5, a participant shall also be entitled to a
payment to the participant s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for
each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the
excess of the participant s After-Tax Interest Accrual over the net income of
the participant s Grantor Trust for the year and shall be paid by Abbott
directly to the participant s Grantor Trust within the thirty (30) days
beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which the Guaranteed
Rate Payment is earned.  No payments
shall be made under this subsection 9-10 for any year following the year in
which the participant dies, retires or otherwise terminates employment with
Abbott.  

9-11.        In
addition and notwithstanding the payments made to a participant s Grantor Trust
under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and subject only to the subsequent election
requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), Abbott shall make the
monthly vested supplemental pension payments that would have been payable to
the participant had no payments been made to the participant s Grantor Trust
under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in the form provided by subsection 8-3.  The monthly vested supplemental pension
payments hereunder shall commence on the first business day of February following
the sixth anniversary of the participant s termination of employment and ending
with the month of the participant s (or surviving spouse s) death.  By way of example, (i) if a participant
terminated employment on June 1, 2008, the commencement date would be the
first business day in February, 2015 and (ii) if a participant terminated
employment on January 15, 2008, the commencement date would be the first
business day in February, 2014.  For
purposes of determining the commencement date under this subsection 9-11, a
participant who retired prior to January 1, 2009 but after December 31,
2004 shall be deemed to have terminated employment on March 1, 2008.  Payments under this subsection 9-11 shall be
made by the employers (in such proportions as Abbott shall designate) directly
from their general corporate assets. 
Payment of the annuity required by this subsection 9.11 may be deferred
by Abbott in compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury
Regulation   1.409A-2(b).  Any election
to defer payment hereunder shall not take effect until at least 12 months after
the election is made; shall be made not less than 12 months before the annuity
commencement date; and shall require payment to be deferred for a period of no
less than five years from such annuity commencement date.  

15    

9-12.        For
purposes of this Supplemental Plan, a participant s federal income tax rate
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income
tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this
Supplemental Plan is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed
to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the
state and locality of the participant s residence in the calendar year for
which such a calculation is to be made, and a participant s employment tax rate
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance
Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year for which such a
calculation is to be made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit
for any net capital losses.  

9-13.        Each
participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments
specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established,
may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect
until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided
further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions
of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as
Appendix B.  

9-14.        Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, effective as of January 1,
2005, (a) with respect to each participant who is actively employed by
Abbott as a corporate officer, the Grantor Trust funding threshold of $100,000
formerly referenced in subsections 8-2, 9-1 and 9-2 of the Plan shall no longer
be applied or have any force or effect and (b) the Grantor Trusts
established by the participants under the Supplemental Plan shall be funded in
accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  

9-15.        Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, pursuant to
Q A-20 of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 (the  Notice ), Abbott
shall cause the present value of accrued benefits under the Supplemental Plan
for the periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2005 for each
participant who has made a Grantor Trust election under Section 9-1, to
the extent not previously paid to a Grantor Trust established by the
participant, to be deposited in such Grantor Trust on or prior to December 31,
2005.  Such payment is intended to result
in a partial termination of participation in the Supplemental Plan as permitted
by the Notice.  Each participant who has
established a Grantor Trust and who receives such payment shall include the
full amount of such payment to the Grantor Trust in the participant s income in
2005.  

9-16.        Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, with respect to
each participant who (a) has made a Grantor Trust election under Section 9-1
and (b) first became a corporate officer in 2006, 2007 or 2008, Abbott
shall cause such participant s 
Pre-Officer Benefit (as defined below) to be deposited in the Grantor
Trust established by the participant in 2009, to the extent not previously
subject to an election under Section 9-1 and paid to such Grantor
Trust.  For purposes of the Supplemental
Plan,  Pre-Officer Benefit  means the present value of such participant s
accrued supplemental pension benefits which (i) accrued prior to 2007 in
the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer in 2006; (ii) accrued
prior to 2008 in the case of a participant who first became a corporate officer
in 2007; or (iii) accrued prior to 2009 in the case of a participant who
first became a corporate officer in 2008. 
The foregoing amendment is made in accordance with and pursuant to
Q A-19(c) of the Notice and the guidance extending the same for the
transition period ending on December 31, 2008  For the avoidance of doubt, the amounts
deposited in the participant s Grantor Trusts hereunder shall   

16    

no longer be payable pursuant to subsection
8-2, as such amounts will have been distributed to the respective participants
pursuant to the transition relief described in the preceding sentence.  

17    

APPENDIX A  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN    

[Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, as filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 9, 2005.]  

APPENDIX B  

SUPPLEMENTAL
BENEFIT   

   GRANTOR
TRUST   

THIS
AGREEMENT, made this          day
of                    ,
20    , by and between                           ,
(the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company, located at Chicago, Illinois,
as trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the
grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits
received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  

ARTICLE I 
Introduction   

I-1.           Name .  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced
(the  trust ) may be referred to as the  
                          
Supplemental Benefit Grantor Trust.   

I-2.           The Trust Fund .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all
property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  

I-3.           Status of the Trust .  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor
trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and
shall be construed accordingly.  

I-4.           The Administrator .  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as
the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights
and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator.  The trustee may rely on
the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  

I-5.           Acceptance .  The trustee accepts the duties and
obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it
by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any
proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this
agreement.  

18    

ARTICLE II 
Distribution of the Trust Fund   

II-1.          Supplemental Pension Account .  The administrator shall maintain a  supplemental
pension account  under the trust.  As of
the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the account with
all distributions made from the account during that year; and credit the
account with its share of trust income and realized gains and charge the
account with its share of trust expenses and realized losses for the year.  

II-2.          Distributions Prior to the Grantor s
Death .  Principal and accumulated
income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s
retirement or other termination of employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of
Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the
administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of
the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to
be accumulated in the trust.  The
administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the
amounts from time to time credited to the supplemental pension account to the
grantor, if then living, in the same manner, at the same time and over the same
period as the pension payable to the grantor under Abbott Laboratories Annuity
Retirement Plan.  

II-3.          Distributions After the Grantor s
Death .  The grantor, from time to
time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or
successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the
principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof
shall be distributed upon the grantor s death. 
The grantor may direct that such amounts be distributed in a lump sum
or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust [a  Trust ] for
which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in the same manner,
at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor s
surviving spouse under the Abbott Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan.  If the grantor directs the same method of
distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts
remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump
sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs the same method of
distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the Abbott
Laboratories Annuity Retirement Plan to a Trust for which the grantor s spouse
is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the
spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such Trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the
beneficiary is a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3
other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the
year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such Trust may
elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior
designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the
grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of
distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a
beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall
distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or
administrator of the grantor s estate.   

II-4.          Facility of Payment .  When a person entitled to a distribution
hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative,
or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any  

19    

distribution made in
accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge
of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  

II-5.          Perpetuities .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the
last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of
this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance
in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  

ARTICLE III 
Management of the Trust Fund   

III-1.             General Powers   .  The trustee
shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and
duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  

(a)                                      Subject to the limitations of
subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or
exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust
fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as
the trustee decides.  

(b)                                     To invest and reinvest the trust
fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the
United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith
and credit of the United States Government and in any mutual funds, common
trust funds or collective investment funds which invest solely in such
obligations, provided that to the extent practicable no more than Ten Thousand
Dollars ($10,000) shall be invested in such mutual funds, common trust funds or
collective investment funds at any time; and any such investment made or retained
by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack
of diversification or marketability.  

(c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary
(including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without
liability for interest, in amounts not in excess of those reasonably necessary
to make distributions from the trust.  

(d)                                     To borrow from anyone, with the
administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee
considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or
part of the trust fund as security.  

(e)                                      To retain any funds or property
subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make
payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent
jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  

(f)                                        To begin, maintain or defend any
litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust,
except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless
indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  

(g)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or
abandon claims or demands.  

20    

(h)                                     To give proxies to vote stocks and
other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others)
voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations,
liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation,
and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  

(i)                                         To hold securities or other property
in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without
disclosing the trust relationship.  

(j)                                         To divide or distribute the trust
fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  

(k)                                      To pay any tax imposed on or with
respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is
indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making
any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and
such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for
its protection.  

(l)                                         To deal without restriction with the
legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal
representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in
which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually,
shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may
result.  

(m)                                   Upon the prior written consent of
the administrator, to appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or
corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special
trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the
trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited
or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights,
titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without
liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the
appointing instrument.  

(n)                                     To appoint or remove by written
instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust
fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and
discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  

(o)                                     To employ agents, attorneys,
accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the
trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or
refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  

(p)                                     To perform any and all other acts
which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management,
investment and distribution of the trust fund.  

III-2.             Principal and Income   . 
Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided
in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the
principal of the   

21    

trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall
include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including
principal and accumulated income.  

III-3.         Statements .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly
to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to
each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a
statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set
forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected
by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the
value thereof at the end of such period.  

III-4.         Compensation and Expenses .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses
incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the
trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons
employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale,
investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust
fund.  

ARTICLE IV 
General Provisions   

IV-1.         Interests Not Transferable .  The interests of the grantor or other persons
entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other
obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred,
alienated, assigned or encumbered.  

IV-2.         Disagreements as to Acts .  If there is a disagreement between the
trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the
trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any court.  

IV-3.         Trustee s Obligations .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed
on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine
whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the
trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution.  The trustee shall be
protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II
without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; the
trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without
written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms
of this agreement; and the trustee shall not be liable for any action taken
because of the specific direction of the administrator.  

IV-4.         Good Faith Actions .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its
powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the
application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is
acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with
the trustee.  

IV-5.         Waiver of Notice .  Any notice required under this agreement may
be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

IV-6.         Controlling Law .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall
govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and
all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and
distribution of the trust hereby created.  

22    

IV-7.         Successors .  This agreement shall be binding on all
persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and
legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  

ARTICLE V 
Changes in Trustee   

V-1.          Resignation or Removal of Trustee .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving
thirty days  advance notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by
written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  

V-2.          Appointment of Successor Trustee .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in
the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor
trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then
living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or
distributions under this agreement.  A
successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  

V-3.          Duties of Resigning or Removed
Trustee and of Successor Trustee .  A
trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator
and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from
the date of its last account.  Each
successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its
predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each
predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to
vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the
powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally
liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a
successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered
by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such
acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  

ARTICLE VI 
Amendment and Termination   

VI-1.             Amendment   .  With the consent
of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the
grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then
entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  

(a)                                      The duties and liabilities of the
trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  

(b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as
to make the trust revocable.  

VI-2.         Termination .  This trust shall not terminate, and all
rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or
reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries
shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed
by the trustee as provided in Article II.  

*     *     *  

23    

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day
and year first above written.  

Grantor  

The Northern
  Trust Company, as Trustee  

By  

Its  

24    

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 4
 a2196380zex-10_5.htm
 EX-10.5

Exhibit 10.5   

1986 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN 
(as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)   

SECTION 1   

INTRODUCTION   

1.1             BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES. This 1986 ABBOTT LABORATORIES
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN (the  Plan ) is a successor Plan to the 1961, 1971
and 1981 Management Incentive Plans (the  Predecessor Plans ). This Plan is
being established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES ( Abbott ) for the following purposes:  

(a)                                      To provide greater incentive for
participants in the Plan to attain and maintain the highest standards of
managerial performance by rewarding them for services rendered with
compensation, in addition to their base salaries, in proportion to the success
of Abbott and to the participants  respective contribution to such success; and  

(b)                                     To attract and retain in the employ
of Abbott and its subsidiaries persons of outstanding competence.  

1.2             EFFECTIVE DATE AND FISCAL YEAR. The Plan became
effective as of January 1, 1986 and is hereby amended and restated as of January 1,
2008, in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  The term  fiscal year,  as used in this Plan,
means the fiscal period from time to time employed by Abbott for the purpose of
reporting earnings to shareholders.  

1.3             ADMINISTRATION. The Plan will be administered by the
Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of
Abbott (the  Board of Directors ).  

1.4             GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS. 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any amounts under
the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined
in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to participants who
retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts ) shall be subject
to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as in effect on December 31,
2004.  Amendments made to the Plan
pursuant to this amendment and restatement or otherwise shall not affect the
Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly provided for in the amendment.  The terms and conditions applicable to the
Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.  

1    

SECTION 2   

ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   

2.1             PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION. Participation in
the Plan will be limited to those Officers and managerial employees of Abbott
and its subsidiaries who, from time to time, shall be selected as participants
by the Committee.  

2.2             PARTICIPANTS. The term  participant,  as used in the
Plan, shall include both active participants and inactive participants.  

2.3             ACTIVE PARTICIPANTS. For each fiscal year, there shall
be a group of active participants which, except as provided below, shall not
exceed forty-five persons and shall consist of those persons eligible for
participation who shall have been designated as active participants and
notified of that fact by the Committee. 
If, as a result of the growth of Abbott and its subsidiaries or changes
in Abbott s organization, the Board of Directors deems it appropriate, the
Board of Directors may, in its discretion, from time to time, increase the
number of persons who may be designated as active participants for any fiscal
year beyond the limit of forty-five persons provided for above. Selection as an
active participant for any fiscal year shall not confer upon any person a right
to be an active participant in any subsequent fiscal year, nor shall it confer
upon him the right to receive any allocation under the Plan, other than amounts
allocated to him by the Committee pursuant to the Plan, and all such
allocations shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan.  

2.4             INACTIVE PARTICIPANTS. Inactive participants shall
consist of those persons, including beneficiaries of deceased participants, if
any, for whom an allocation shall have been made for a prior fiscal year under
this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, the payment of which was deferred and remains
unpaid. Status as an inactive participant shall not preclude a person from also
being an active participant during any fiscal year.  

SECTION 3   

MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND   

3.1             BASE FOR MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND. The  base
earnings  for determining whether any portion of consolidated net income for
any fiscal year may be allocated to the Management Incentive Plan Fund for such
year shall be that amount of consolidated net income (as defined in subsection
3.2) which is equal to 15 percent of the Abbott Common Shareholder s Equity for
such fiscal year. For this purpose,  Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity  for
any fiscal year shall mean the Shareholders  Investment, as reflected in the
consolidated balance sheet of Abbott as of the close of the next preceding
fiscal year, plus or minus such adjustments thereof as may be determined by the
Committee in order to reflect:  

(a)              The existence, issuance, sale, exchange, conversion or

2    

retirement of any securities, other than
common shares, of Abbott (whether involving preferred stock, debt, convertible
preferred stock or convertible debt securities); and  

(b)             The issuance or retirement of any common shares or any
changes in accounting methods or period adopted by Abbott since the close of
such next preceding fiscal year.  

Any adjustments to be made in accordance with (a) and (b) above
in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity for any fiscal year shall be
determined by the Committee after consultation with Abbott s independent
auditors, and any determination made by the Committee after such consultation
shall be conclusive upon all persons.  

3.2             CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME. For the purposes of this
Plan, for any fiscal year or period, the  consolidated net income  shall be the
consolidated net income of Abbott and its subsidiaries, prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, after
provision for any interest accrued with respect to such period on account of
deferred payments under this Plan or a Predecessor Plan, but before allowances
for any amount to be allocated to the Management Incentive Plan Fund, both net
of applicable income taxes, and after such adjustments for the following, as
may be determined by the Committee after consultation with Abbott s independent
auditors (all net of applicable income taxes):  

(a)              The exclusion of any charges for amortization or
goodwill arising out of acquisitions made for securities which, as a result of
adjustments made in determining Abbott Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to
subsection 3.1, are treated as common share equivalents; and  

(b)             The exclusion of any interest on debt securities which
are convertible into common shares of Abbott and which shall have been
considered as common share equivalents in determining Abbott Common Shareholders 
Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1 hereof; and  

(c)              The deduction of any dividend requirement for
preferred shares which has not been considered as common share equivalents in
determining Common Shareholders  Equity pursuant to subsection 3.1 hereof.  

In the sole
discretion of the Committee there shall also be excluded in the calculation of  consolidated
net income  unusual gains and losses and the tax effects thereof, changes in
generally accepted accounting principles and the tax effects thereof and extraordinary
gains and losses.  

3.3             DETERMINATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN AMOUNT FOR
ANY YEAR. For each fiscal year that consolidated net income exceeds base
earnings, and as soon as practicable after ascertainment of that fact, the
Committee shall determine a tentative amount as the Management Incentive Plan
Amount for that year, which tentative amount shall not exceed the lesser of:  

3    

(a)              an amount which, when treated as an expense currently
deductible for income tax purposes in such year, would cause a 5 percent
reduction in such year s excess of consolidated net income over the base
earnings for such year; and  

(b)             an amount which, when treated as an expense currently
deductible for income tax purposes in such year, would cause a 1-1/2 percent
reduction in such year s consolidated net income; and  

(c)              an amount which equals 200 percent of the aggregate
base salaries of all active participants for such year.  

For purposes of the Plan  base salary  means the
amount of salary paid to each active participant by Abbott and its subsidiaries
for such year plus the includible portion (as described below) of any  Eligible
Restricted Stock Award,  as defined in Section 5-2 of the Abbott
Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan and does not include bonuses, other
awards or any other compensation of any kind. The includible portion of a
participant s Eligible Restricted Stock Award shall be the portion of the
participant s Eligible Restricted Stock Award that is included in the
participant s final earnings under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension
Plan for such year. Following determination of such tentative Management
Incentive Plan Amount, the Committee shall report in writing the amount of such
tentative amount to the Board of Directors. At the meeting of the Board of
Directors coincident with or next following receipt by it of the Committee s
determination, the Board of Directors shall have the power to approve or
reduce, but not to increase, the tentative amount reported to it by the
Committee. The amount approved by the Board of Directors shall be the
Management Incentive Plan Amount for such year.  

3.4             THE MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND. The Management
Incentive Plan Fund at any time shall consist of an amount equal to the
aggregate of the Management Incentive Plan Amounts established pursuant to
subsection 3.3 of this Plan for all fiscal years during which this Plan shall
have been operative, plus the amounts established as Management Incentive Plan
Amounts for any prior fiscal year pursuant to a Predecessor Plan, reduced by an
amount equal to the aggregate of the amounts of awards which shall have been
allocated to participants in accordance with this Plan or a Predecessor Plan,
and awards, or any other compensation of any kind.  

SECTION 4   

ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND   

4.1             ANNUAL ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND. As
soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, part or all of the
amount then in the Management Incentive Plan Fund (including the Management
Incentive Plan Amount for such fiscal year) will be allocated by the Committee
among active participants in the Plan for such fiscal year, having due regard
for the purposes for which the Plan was established, in the following manner
and order:  

4    

(a)              First, if the Chairman of the Board of Abbott shall be
an active participant for such year, the members of the Committee, other than
the Chairman of the Board, shall determine the amount, if any, to be allocated
to the Chairman of the Board from such Fund for such year; and  

(b)             Next, all or a part of the balance of such Fund may be
allocated among the active participants (other than the Chairman of the Board)
for such year, in such amounts and proportions as the Committee shall determine
provided, however, that the amount allocated to any active participant for any
year shall not exceed 200 percent of such participant s base salary for that
year.  

4.2             COMMITTEE S DISCRETION IN ALLOCATIONS. In making any
allocations in accordance with subsection 4.1 for any year, the discretion of
the Committee shall be absolute, and no active participants for any year, by
reason of their designation as such, shall be entitled to any particular
amounts or any amount whatsoever.  

SECTION 5   

PAYMENT OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS   

5.1             TIME OF PAYMENT. For fiscal years beginning after December 31,
1988, a participant shall direct the payment or deferral of an allocation made
to him pursuant to subsection 4.1 at the time specified in subsection 5.2
(subject to such conditions relating to the right of the participant to receive
payment of such amount as established by the Committee) by one or more of the
following methods:  

(a)              current payment in cash to the participant, which
payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month
period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  

(b)             current payment of a portion in cash and deposited to
a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form
which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit B)
and the balance paid to the participant approximately equal to the participant s
aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes
(determined in accordance with subsection 6.7); provided that all payments or
contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this
subsection 5.1(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable
2   month period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation
  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  

(c)              deferral of payment until such time and in such manner
as determined in accordance with subsection 5.14.  

5.2             TIME OF ELECTION.  

(a)                                      A participant must make the election
described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate on
or before December 31   

5    

of the year prior to the fiscal year during which the incentive compensation is
earned under the Plan.  

(b)                                     Notwithstanding the timing
requirements described above, an individual who newly becomes eligible to
participate in the Plan by being designated as a participant under subsection
2.1 (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be
aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the
an initial deferral election described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the
Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately
following the date he or she first is designated as participant,  provided ,
that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services
performed after the date of such election. 
For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation
paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no
more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  

(c)                                      Any election described in subsection
5.1 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  

5.3             SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. The Committee shall establish
accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5.1(b) or
5.1(c) as follows.  

(a)              The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in
the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a
portion of his or her MIP award under subsection 5.1(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of
allocations deferred according to subsection 5.1(c) and any adjustments
made in accordance with subsection 5.4.  

(b)             The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax
Account  and an  After-Tax Account , in the name of each participant who has
elected to have a portion of his or her MIP award deposited in cash to a
Grantor Trust according to subsection 5.1(b). 
The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all allocations
contemplated by subsection 5.1(b), whether deposited to the participant s
Grantor Trust or made in cash to the participant, and any adjustments made in
accordance with subsection 5.5.  The
After-Tax Account shall consist of allocations deposited to the participant s
Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5.1(b) and any adjustments
made in accordance with subsection 5.6.  

5.4             ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. As of the end of each
fiscal year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the
Committee as follows:  

(a)                                      FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to
any distributions made to the participant during that year pursuant to
subsections 5.14 or 5.15;  

(b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal
to the allocation for that year that is deferred pursuant to subsection 5.1(c);
and  

6    

(c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount
equal to the interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  

5.5             ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS. As of the end of each
fiscal year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the
Committee as follows:  

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is
entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount
equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the
aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5.1(b) had instead
been deferred under subsection 5.1(c);  

(b)             NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any allocation
for that year that is paid to the participant (including the amount deposited
in the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5.1(b); and  

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the interest
earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  

5.6             ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS. As of the end of
each fiscal year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the
Committee as follows:  

(a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant
is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an
amount calculated as provided in subsection 5.19 which represents the
distribution for such year;  

(b)             NEXT, increased by an amount equal to the allocation
for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to
subsection 5.1(b); and  

(c)              FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the interest
earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  

5.7             INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  

(a)              As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred
Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest )
at the following rate:  

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of
interest published by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable
successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the
last business day of each month of the fiscal year;  

7    

(ii)             plus two hundred twenty-five (225)
basis points.  

(b)       As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s
After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest provided above,
multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and
local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in
accordance with subsection 6.7 (the  After-Tax Interest )).  

(c)       This Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable,
shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that
any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a
participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award
is made.  

5.8       GUARANTEED RATE PAYMENTS. In addition to any
allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with
subsection 5.1(b), Abbott shall also make a payment to a participant s Grantor
Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each year in which the Grantor Trust is
in effect.  The Guaranteed Rate Payment
shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s Net Interest Accrual (as
defined below) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the
year and shall be paid within the thirty (30) days beginning April 1 of
the following fiscal year.  A participant s
Net Interest Accrual for the year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest
credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance
with subsection 5.7.  

5.9       GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS. Each participant s Grantor Trust
assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment
guidelines established by the Committee. 
Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the
Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year
following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the
instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of subsection 3(b) of
the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  

5.10             DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES. Subject to the
conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a
participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection 5.10, shall have the right
from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and,
successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts
from the participant s Deferred Account under the Plan and the Predecessor
Plans. Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as
a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate. Any such
designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such
beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary,
upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of
the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan or a
Predecessor Plan). The conditions and limitations relating to the designation
of beneficiaries are as follows:  

(a)               A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to
designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original
participant or the next preceding  

8    

primary beneficiary,
as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  

(b)               A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further
beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are
entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under
the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  

Any
beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this
subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the
person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the
Secretary of Abbott during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination
of a fiduciary s duties. If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary
beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies
without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary
designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee,
in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to
time to either:  

(iii)              any one or more or all of the next
of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased
beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee
determines; or  

(iv)              the legal representative of the
estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  

5.11             STATUS OF BENEFICIARIES. Following a participant s
death, the participant s beneficiary or beneficiaries will be considered and
treated as an inactive participant for all purposes of this Plan.  

5.12             NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT. Amounts
payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any
way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or
involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding
provisions of this subsection shall not be construed as restricting in any way
a designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of
subsection 5.10. When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is
under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way
incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the
Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or
beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the
participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary,
or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the
participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  

5.13             PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS. Any amount
allocated to a participant in the Plan and any interest credited thereto will
be  

9    

paid by the employer (or such employer s successor)
by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for which any
amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been
employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount allocated
under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective
employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary paid by each
of them in that fiscal year.  

5.14             MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS. Subject to
subsection 5.15, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred
Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten
years, or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under
subsection 5.1(c).  Payment of a
participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of
the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  

5.15             PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN
CONTROL.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of the Plan or the provisions of any award made under the Plan, if a
participant incurs a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries
for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in
Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change
in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under
the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5.1(c), the aggregate unpaid
balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant
in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of
employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose allocations under
the Plan are made pursuant to subsection 5.1(b), (i) the aggregate of the
participant s unpaid allocation under subsection 5.1(b) (if any) for the
fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of
the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under subsection 5.8 attributable to the
portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to
such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following
the date of such termination of employment.  

5.16             CHANGE IN CONTROL. A  Change in Control  shall be
deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  

(a)               the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the
securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly
from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting
power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes
such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of
paragraph (c) below; or  

(b)               the date the following individuals cease for any
reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving:
individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any
new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election  

10    

contest, including
but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of
directors of Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or
nomination for election by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by
a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who
either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or
nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  

(c)               the date on which there is consummated a merger or
consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Abbott with any
other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or
consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise
the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority
of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott
or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the
securities of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or
consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar
transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not including in the securities
Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott
or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities; or  

(d)               the date the shareholders of Abbott approve a plan of
complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is consummated an
agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or substantially all of
Abbott s assets, other than a sale or disposition by Abbott of all or
substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined
voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of
Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary
holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any subsidiary
of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Abbott
immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or
series of transactions continue to have    substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially
all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of
transactions.  

For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth
in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial
Owner  shall have the  

11    

meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange
Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to
time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of
the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof,
except that such term shall not include (i) Abbott or any of its
subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of Abbott or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an
underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such
securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders
of Abbott in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of
Abbott.  

5.17             POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL. A  Potential Change in
Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a
Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence
of a Change in Control):  

(a)               Abbott enters into an agreement, the consummation of
which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a
Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to
exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  

(b)               Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth
in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly
announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation
of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change
in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the
withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors
that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  

(c)               Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more of either the then
outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined voting power of
Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially
owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from Abbott or its
Affiliates).  

(d)               The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the
effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control
exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph
(d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors
that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence
of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  

5.18             PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT. The provisions of
subsections 5.15, 5.16, 5.17 and this subsection 5.18 may not be amended or
deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during
the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period
beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

12    

5.19             ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST
DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed
from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is
entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the
reduction determined in accordance with subsection 5.5(a), by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax
Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is
the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  

SECTION 6   

MISCELLANEOUS   

6.1       RULES. The Committee may establish such rules and
regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and
efficient administration of the Plan.  

6.2       MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE. A majority of the
members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by
meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or
document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign. The
Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial
functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such
person or persons as the Committee may select. Except as otherwise expressly
provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by
Abbott. Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be
filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or
delivered in writing to the Secretary of Abbott.  

6.3       RELIANCE UPON ADVICE. The Board of Directors and the
Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any
Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors, or other consultants,
and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice. No
member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act
or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be
done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of
any other member.  

6.4       TAXES. Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or
desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax,
attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan after giving the
person entitled to receive such amount notice as far in advance as practicable,
and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount
necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  

6.5       RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS. Employment rights of
participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected
by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan.
Nothing contained in the Plan shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to
segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment
of any amounts which may have been deferred. The Deferred Account, Pre-Tax
Account and After-Tax Account with respect to any  

13    

participant established
pursuant to subsection 5.2 are for the convenience of the administration of the
Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or
should be implied. Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at
the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan. Any
decision made by the Board of Directors or the Committee, which is within the
sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding
upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  

6.6       TAX GROSS UP. In addition to the allocations provided
under subsection 4.1, each participant who has established a Grantor Trust (or,
if the participant is deceased, the beneficiary designated under the
participant s Grantor Trust) shall be entitled to a Tax Gross Up payment for
each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The  Tax Gross Up  shall equal: (a) the
amount necessary to compensate the participant (or beneficiary) for the net
increase in the participant s (or beneficiary s) federal, state and local
income taxes as a result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of the
income of the participant s Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate Payment for
that year; plus (b) an amount necessary to compensate the participant (or
beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a
result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this subsection 6.6. Payment of the Tax Gross Up shall be made by
the employers (in such proportions as Abbott shall designate) directly from
their general corporate assets, no later than the end of the calendar year in
which the participant remits the related taxes.  

6.7       INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS. For purposes of Sections 5 and
6, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest
marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year
in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local
tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income
tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the
date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a
benefit for any net capital losses. For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a
participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal
rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year
in which a calculation under that Section is to be made.  

6.8       SECTION 409A. 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the
provisions of Code Section 409A. 
The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent
with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to
satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to
comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by
Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding
anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a
participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until
the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury
Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated
taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable
guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that
would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of
termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the
expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to
the rate specified in subsection 5.7 (to the extent that such interest is not
already provided to the participant under subsection 5.6), from the respective
dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual
date of payment.  In  

14    

addition, for purposes of the Plan, each
amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate
identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  

SECTION 7   

AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF 
CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS   

7.1       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. The Plan will be effective
from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors. During the
fifth year after the Plan s effective date and during every fifth year
thereafter, the Committee may recommend to the Board of Directors whether the
Plan should be amended or terminated. The Board of Directors reserves the right
to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time,
except that no such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any
fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to
the date of such amendment or termination, or change the terms and conditions
of payment of any allocation theretofore made without the consent of the
participant concerned.  

7.2        CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time or payment or the time
of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made
shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election
requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject
thereto.  

15    

Exhibit A   

1986   

   ABBOTT LABORATORIES   

   MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN   

[The 1986 Abbott Laboratories
Management Incentive Plan, as amended, as filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Abbott
Laboratories Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 on Form
10-Q.]  

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.7>
 5
 a2196380zex-10_7.htm
 EX-10.7

Exhibit 10.7   

As Amended and Restated  

  Effective as of January 1, 2008  

1998 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN (PIP) RULES  

  409A DOCUMENT  

The following rules shall govern the administration of the 1998
Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan (PIP) and any comparable
successor plan with respect to all amounts that are not Grandfathered Amounts.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise
defined in these Rules shall have the meaning provided in the PIP.  These rules shall remain in effect until
amended by the Committee:  

1.                            Fiscal Year   . 
The term  fiscal year , as used in the PIP, means the fiscal period from
time to time employed by Abbott for the purpose of reporting earnings to
shareholders.  

2.                            Consolidated Net Income   . 
 Consolidated Net Income  shall be the consolidated net income for such
fiscal year as stated in Abbott s Audited Financial Statements.  Excluded from the calculation of consolidated
net income will be the effect of changes in GAAP and the tax effects thereon,
and extraordinary gains and loses and the tax effects thereon if presented in
the audited Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

3.                            Naming of Participants   . 
For any fiscal year, all participants in the PIP must be named by the Committee
prior to the completion of the immediately preceding fiscal year.  A PIP participant may not be an active
participant in the MIP in the same fiscal year.  

4.                            Inclusion in Pensionable Earnings   . 
The full amount of any PIP award earned under Rule 5 will be
included in the participant s pensionable earnings.  

5.                            Time of Payment   . 
Beginning with any award allocation paid after December 31, 1998, a
participant must direct payment or deferral of an allocation made to the participant
under the PIP by one or more of the following methods:  

(a)                      In cash to the participant, which
payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month
period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation
  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  

(b)                     A portion in cash and deposited to a
grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form
which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit A)
and the balance paid to the participant approximately equal to the participant s
aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes;
provided that all payments or contributions   

to the Grantor Trust and
participant contemplated by this Rule 5(b) shall be made no later
than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period , as such term is defined
in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  

(c)                     Deferral of payment until the time,
and in the manner determined in Rule 17.  

Amounts paid under the PIP will
not be considered amounts paid under the MIP for purposes of subsections 3.3
and 3.4 and Section 4 of the MIP.  The
base salaries of PIP participants will not be considered for determination of
the MIP amount in subsection 3.3 of the MIP.  

6.                            Time of Election   .  

(a)                      A participant must make the election
described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee before expiration of
the election period established by the Committee, which period shall end    no
later than December 31 of the fiscal year prior to the year during which
the performance incentive compensation is earned under the PIP.  

(b)                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements
of Rule 6(a), an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in
the PIP by being designated as a participant under Section 3.1 of the PIP
(and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be
aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the
an initial deferral election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the
Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately
following the date he or she first is designated as participant,  provided ,
that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to
services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed
to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election
applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation
 1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  

(c)                      Any election described in Rule 5
shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  

7.                            Accounts   . 
The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made
elections pursuant to Rule 5(b) or 5(c) as follows.  

(a)                      The Committee will maintain a  Deferred
Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of
all or a portion of his or her PIP award under Rule 5(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of
allocations deferred according to Rule 5(c) and any adjustments made
in accordance with Rule 8.  

2    

(b)                     The Committee will maintain two
separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account , in the name
of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a
portion of his or her PIP award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according
to Rule 5(b).  The Pre-Tax Account
shall consist of the aggregate of all allocations contemplated by Rule 5(b),
whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or made in cash to the
participant, and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 9.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of
allocations deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to Rule 5(b) and
any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 10.  

8.                            Adjustment of Deferred Accounts   . 
At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account will be
adjusted as follows:  

(a)                      First, reduced by an amount equal to
any distribution made to the participant during the year according to Rule 17
or Rule 18;  

(b)                     Next, increased by an amount equal
to any allocation for that year that is deferred according to Rule 5(c);
and  

(c)                      Last, increased by an amount equal
to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  

9.                            Adjustment of Pre-Tax Accounts   . 
At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Pre-Tax Account will be
adjusted as follows:  

(a)                      First, reduced, in any year in which
the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the
participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to Rule 5(b) had
instead been deferred under Rule 5(c);  

(b)                     Next, increased by an amount equal
to any allocation for that year that is paid to the participant (including the
amount paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to Rule 5(b);
and  

(c)                      Last, increased by an amount equal
to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  

10.                      Adjustment of After-Tax Accounts   . 
At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account will
be adjusted as follows:  

(a)                      First, reduced, in any year in which
the participant is in receipt of a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust,
by an amount calculated as provided in Rule 28 which represents the
distribution for such year;  

3    

(b)                     Next, increased by an amount equal
to the allocation for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor
Trust according to Rule 5(b); and  

(c)                      Last, increased by an amount equal
to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  

11.                      Interest Accruals on Accounts   .  

(a)                      As of the end of each fiscal year, a
participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be
credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of
interest  published by The Wall Street
Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on the
first business day of January and the last business day of each month of
the fiscal year; plus  

(ii)                                      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis
points.  

(b)                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a
participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest
set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable
federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate,
determined in accordance with Rule 26 (the  After-Tax Interest )).  

(c)                      The Interest and After-Tax Interest,
as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the
Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been
made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal
year in which the award is made.  

12.                      Guaranteed Rate Payments   . 
In addition to any allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year
in accordance with Rule 5(b), Abbott shall also make a payment to a
participant s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate Payment ) for each year in
which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The
Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s
Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over the net earnings of the
participant s Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)
days beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a
year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s
After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with Rule 11(b).  

13.                      Grantor Trust Assets   . 
Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the
instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the
Committee.  Such investment guidelines,
once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change
shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is
made and provided further that the instruments   

4    

specified
shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form
of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A.  

14.                      Designation of Beneficiaries   . 
Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each
participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated
by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this Rule 14, shall
have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or
beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to
receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the
PIP.  Beneficiaries may be a natural
person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal
representative of an estate.  Any such
designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such
beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary,
upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of
the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the PIP).  The conditions and limitations relating to
the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  

(a)                      A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall
have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the
original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may
be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  

(b)                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall
designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other
fiduciaries that are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the
participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  

Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary
under this Rule 14 may be exercised only by an instrument in writing,
executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed
with the Secretary of Abbott during the person s lifetime or prior to the
termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If
a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right
to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a
further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is
living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct
distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either: (i)  any
one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the
participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such
proportions as the Committee determines; or (ii)  the legal representative
of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case
may be.  

15.                      Non-assignability and Facility of
Payment   .  Amounts payable to participants and their
beneficiaries under the PIP are not in any way subject to their debts and other
obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned;
provided that the provisions of these Rules shall not be construed as
restricting   

5    

in any way a
designation right granted to a beneficiary under Rule 14.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a
participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or
beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the
participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary,
or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the
participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  

16.                      Payer of Amounts Allocated to
Participants   .  Any amount allocated to a participant in the
PIP and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such
employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal
year for which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant
shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the
amount allocated under the PIP for that year shall be an obligation of each of
the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary
paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  

17.                      Manner of Payment of Deferred
Accounts   .  Subject to Rule 18, a participant shall
elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual
installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the
time of his deferral election under Rule 5.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account
shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following
the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  

18.                      Payment Upon Termination Following
Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
PIP or the provisions of any award made under the PIP, if a participant incurs
a termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries for any reason within
two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the
event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as
such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with
respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are deferred in
accordance with Rule 5(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s
Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty
(30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with
respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are made pursuant to Rule 5(b),
(i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid allocation under Rule 5(b) (if
any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro
rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under Rule 12
attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of
termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum
within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  

19.                      Change in Control   . 
A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest
of the following dates:  

6    

(a)                      the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of
the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities, excluding
any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction
described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  

(b)                     the date the following individuals
cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then
serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board and any new
director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not
limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of
Abbott) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election
by Abbott s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for
election was previously so approved or recommended; or  

(c)                      the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of Abbott or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of Abbott with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a
merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals
who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority
of the Board of Directors of Abbott, the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation or, if Abbott or the entity surviving such merger or
consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which
results in the voting securities of Abbott outstanding immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott
or any subsidiary of Abbott, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities
of Abbott or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately
after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of Abbott (or similar transaction) in
which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of
securities of Abbott (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by
such Person any securities acquired directly from Abbott or its Affiliates) representing
20% or more of the combined voting power of Abbott s then outstanding
securities; or  

(d)                     the date the shareholders of Abbott
approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of Abbott or there is
consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by Abbott of all or
substantially all of Abbott s assets, other than a sale  

7    

or disposition
by Abbott of all or substantially all of Abbott s assets to an entity, at least
50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by
shareholders of Abbott, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any subsidiary of Abbott, in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Abbott immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of Abbott immediately prior to such transaction or
series of transactions continue to have    substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially
all of the assets of Abbott immediately following such transaction or series of
transactions.  

For purposes of these Rules:  Affiliate 
shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3
under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning
given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in
Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not
include (i) Abbott or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Abbott or
any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities
pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned,
directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of Abbott in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Abbott.  

20.                      Potential Change in Control   . 
A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which
the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below,
exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to
exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  

(a)                      Abbott enters into an agreement, the
consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control,
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall
cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  

(b)                     Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a  

8    

determination
by the Board that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be
consummated.  

(c)                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Abbott representing 10% or more
of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of Abbott or the combined
voting power of Abbott s then outstanding securities (not including any
securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired
directly from Abbott or its Affiliates).  

(d)                     The Board adopts a resolution to the
effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control
exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph
(d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board that the
reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a
Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  

21.                      Prohibition Against Amendment   . 
The provisions of Rules 18, 19, 20 and this Rule 21 may not be
amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other Rule, (i) during the
pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning
on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years
following such Change in Control.  

22.                      Reliance Upon Advice   . 
The Board and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice
furnished to it by any Officer of Abbott or by Abbott s independent auditors,
or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information
or advice.  No member of the Board or the
Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part,
excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they
be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  

23.                      Taxes   . 
Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or
withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax, attributable to any
amounts payable by it under the PIP after giving the person entitled to receive
such amount notice as far in advance as practicable, and may require payment from
the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting
such taxes.  

24.                      Rights of Participants   . 
Employment rights of participants with Abbott and its subsidiaries shall
not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant
in the PIP.  Nothing contained in the PIP
shall require Abbott or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets,
funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been
deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and
After-Tax Accounts established in accordance with Rule 7 are for the
convenience of the administration of the PIP and no trust relationship with
respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment
to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the PIP
and these Rules.  Any decision made by
the Board or the Committee, which is  

9    

within the
sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding
upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  

25.                      Tax Adjustment Payment   . 
In addition to the allocations provided in accordance with Rule 5,
each participant who has established a Grantor Trust (or, if the participant is
deceased, the beneficiary designated under the participant s Grantor Trust)
shall be entitled to a Tax Adjustment Payment for each year in which the Grantor
Trust is in effect.  Payment of the Tax
Adjustment Payment shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as
Abbott shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets, no later
than the end of the calendar year in which the participant remits the related
taxes.  The  Tax Adjustment Payment 
shall equal:  

(a)                      the amount necessary to compensate
the participant (or beneficiary) for the net increase in the participant s (or
beneficiary s) federal, state and local income taxes as a result of the
inclusion in his or her taxable income of the income of the participant s Grantor
Trust and any Guaranteed Rate Payment for that year; plus  

(b)                    an amount necessary to compensate the participant (or
beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a
result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this Rule 25.  

26.                      Income Tax Assumptions   . 
For purposes of these Rules, a participant s federal income tax rate
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual
tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the Rules is
to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest
marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of
the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any
federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses. For purposes
of these Rules, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the
highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contribution Act tax in effect in the
calendar year in which a calculation under the applicable Rule is to be made.  

27.                      Change of Conditions Relating to
Payments   .  No change to the time of payment or the time
of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made
shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements
of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  

28.                      Administrator s Calculation of
Grantor Trust Distributions   . The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be
distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the
participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the
amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Rule 9(a), by (ii) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax
Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is
the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date  

29.                      Section 409A   . 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that these Rules comply
with the provisions of Code Section 409A. 
The Rules will be administered and interpreted  

10    

in a manner
consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Rules to
fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until
amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent
permitted by Code Section 409A). 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all
purposes of these Rules, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a
termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from
service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent
required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A
and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under
the Rules that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period
after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day
after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate
equal to the rate specified in Rule 11 (to the extent that such interest
is not already provided to the participant under Rule 12), from the
respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the
actual date of payment.  In addition, for
purposes of these Rules, each amount to be paid and each installment payment
shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  

11    

Exhibit B   

IRREVOCABLE
GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   

THIS
AGREEMENT, made this          day of                  ,
20    , by and between                                     
of                    ,
Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago,
Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and
maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the
1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from
time to time;  

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  

ARTICLE I   

INTRODUCTION   

I-1                                     NAME.
This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to
as the                      
20    Grantor Trust . 

I-2                                     THE
TRUST FUND. The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the
trustee under this agreement. 

I-3                                     STATUS
OF THE TRUST. The trust shall be irrevocable. The trust is intended to
constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code,
as amended, and shall be construed accordingly. 

I-4                                     THE
ADMINISTRATOR. Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) shall act as the  administrator 
of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under
this agreement as described below. Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without
further inquiry or verification. 

I-5                                     ACCEPTANCE.
The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder,
agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and
agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds)
in trust in accordance with this agreement. 

ARTICLE II   

DISTRIBUTION
OF THE TRUST FUND   

II-1                                 SEPARATE
ACCOUNTS. The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the
trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.  Funds delivered to the
trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by
the administrator. As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall
charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that
year; and credit each account with its share of income and realized gains and
charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the
year. The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the
trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered
to it under the trust as one trust fund. 

II-2                                 DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH. The trustee shall
distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to
the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the
administrator shall direct. 

II-3                                 DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH. Principal and
accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed
from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of
employment with Abbott or a subsidiary of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement
date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to
distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for
that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.
The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.
Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited
to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual
installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the
following methods: 

(a)                                     The amount of each
installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the
deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement
date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be
distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account
for the preceding year  (excluding the
year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs). 

(b)                                    The amount of each
installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred
account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the
total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the
number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred
account. 

(c)                                     Each installment
(after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount
comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus
interest thereon at the rate determined under the 1986 Abbott Laboratories
Management Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings
credited to the deferred account for the preceding year. 

(i)                                        the
foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this
paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held
in the trust fund. The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the
administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s
settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is
established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select
both the period (which may not be less than  

ten years from
the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred)
over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of
computing the amount of each installment. In the absence of such a written
direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period
of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the
method described in subparagraph (a) next above. Installment distributions
under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year,
beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s
settlement date occurs. The administrator shall inform the trustee of the
amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the
trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from
the administrator.  

II-4.                              DISTRIBUTIONS
FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH. The grantor, from time to time
may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively
and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the
trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be
distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a
trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in
installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death. If the
grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall
be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse
beneficiary s estate. If the grantor directs an installment method of
distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be
distributed in a lump sum to such trust. Despite the foregoing, if (i) the
beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4
other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the
year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may
elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee. Each
designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall
be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the
grantor s lifetime. If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution,
the distribution shall be made in a lump sum. If the grantor fails to designate
a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall
distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or
administrator of the grantor s estate. 

II-5                                 FACILITY
OF PAYMENT. When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal
disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to
be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may  

make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a
relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit. Any distribution
made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete
discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  

II-6                                 PERPETUITIES.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next
preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor
and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the
trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the
beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder. 

ARTICLE III   

   MANAGEMENT OF
THE TRUST FUND   

III-1.                          GENERAL
POWERS. The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following
powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this
agreement or by law: 

(a)                                     Subject
to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to
sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with
all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such
terms and conditions as the trustee decides. 

(b)                                    To
retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest
and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between
principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its
agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment
fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or
retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting
risk or lack of diversification or marketability. 

(c)                                     To
deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank
acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in
savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of
interest in any such depositary. 

(d)                                    To
invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any
common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the
trustee solely for the investment of trust funds. 

(e)                                     To
borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from
time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to
mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security. 

(f)                                       To
retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for
interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final
adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate
release is obtained. 

(g)                                    To
begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the
administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or
required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction. 

(h)                                    To
compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands. 

(i)                                        To
give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose
(alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations,
foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial
structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or
conversion rights. 

(j)                                        To
hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or
in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship. 

(k)                                     To
divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly
in kind. 

(l)                                        To
pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of
any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to
require before making any payment such release or other document from any
lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the
trustee consider necessary for its protection. 

(m)                                  To
deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate
or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the
grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even
though  

the trustee,
individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any
loss that may result.  

(n)                                    To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to
act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or
all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act,
and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or
the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers,
duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any
action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument. 

(o)                                    To
appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as
custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have
such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the
trustee. 

(p)                                    To
employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them
such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be
protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so
employed without court action. 

(q)                                    To
perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate
for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund. 

III-2.                          PRINCIPAL
AND INCOME. Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as
provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to
the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include
all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal
and accumulated income. 

III-3.                          STATEMENTS.
The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually
to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to
distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements)
setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts,
disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the
reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end
of such period. 

III-4.                          COMPENSATION
AND EXPENSES. All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the
administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any
compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons  

employed by
the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and
reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  

ARTICLE IV   

   GENERAL
PROVISIONS   

IV-1.                          INTERESTS
NOT TRANSFERABLE. The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to
distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and
may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned
or encumbered. 

IV-2.                          DISAGREEMENT
AS TO ACTS. If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any
act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right
to a settlement of its account by any proper court. 

IV-3.                          TRUSTEE S
OBLIGATIONS. No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except
as set forth in this agreement. The trustee is not obliged to determine whether
funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust,
or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from
the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to
whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be
liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or
knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this
agreement. 

IV-4.                          GOOD FAITH
ACTIONS. The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions
in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons. No one shall be obliged to
see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.
The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement
will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee. 

IV-5.                          WAIVER OF
NOTICE. Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person
entitled to such notice. 

IV-6.                          CONTROLLING
LAW. The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and
validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the
management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby
created. 

IV-7.                          SUCCESSORS.
This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions
hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the
trustee and its successors. 

ARTICLE V   

   CHANGES IN
TRUSTEE   

V-1.                              RESIGNATION
OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE. The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30)
days  advance written notice to the administrator  

and the
grantor. The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the
trustee and the grantor.  

V-2.                              APPOINTMENT
OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE. The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of
trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and
shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living,
otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under
this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended). 

V-3.                              DUTIES
OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE. A trustee that
resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the
successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date
of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the
trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any
instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all
acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee. Each
successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if
originally named trustee. No successor trustee shall be personally liable for
any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the
administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the
property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for
so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor
trustee. 

ARTICLE VI   

   AMENDMENT AND
TERMINATION   

VI-1.                          AMENDMENT.
With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to
time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the
beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as
follows: 

(a)                                     The
duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without
its consent. 

(b)                                    This
trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable. 

VI-2.                       TERMINATION. This trust shall not
terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities
imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the
beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been
distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II. 

*      *      *  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the
trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above
written.  

Grantor  

The Northern Trust Company as Trustee  

By  

Its  

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.10>
 6
 a2196380zex-10_10.htm
 EX-10.10

Exhibit 10.10   

Amended and
Restated effective January 1, 2008  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   

SECTION 1.  

  PURPOSE  

ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 
FEE PLAN - referred to below as the  Plan  - has been established by ABBOTT
LABORATORIES - referred to below as the  Company  - to attract and retain as
members of its Board of Directors persons who are not full-time employees of
the Company or any of its subsidiaries but whose business experience and
judgment are a valuable asset to the Company and its subsidiaries.  

SECTION 2. 
DIRECTORS COVERED  

As used in the Plan, the term  Director 
means any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Company in
April, 1962 or at any time thereafter, and is not a full-time employee of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.  

SECTION 3.   FEES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS  

3.1               Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred monthly
fee of Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000.00) for each calendar month or portion
thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected a Director) that he
holds such office with the Company.  

3.2               A Director who serves as Chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee
of One Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($1,600.00) for each calendar month or
portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such
position) that he holds such position.  

3.3               Audit Committee Fees  

(a)                                      A Director who serves as Chairman of
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred
monthly fee of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) for each calendar
month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to
such position) that he holds such position.  

(b)                                     Each Director who serves on the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman of the Audit
Committee) shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which
he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  

3.4               A Director who serves as Chairman of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee
of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.  

3.5               A Director who serves as Chairman of the Nominations
Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee
of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.  

3.6               A Director who serves as Chairman of any other
Committee created by this Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred
monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or
portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such
position) that he holds such position.  

3.7               A Director s Deferred Fee Account shall be credited
with interest annually. During the calendar years 1968 and prior, the rate of
interest credited to deferred fees shall be four (4) percent per annum.
During the calendar years 1969 through 1992, the rate of interest credited to
deferred fees shall be the average of the prime rates being charged by the two
largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month
coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited.
During the calendar years 1993 through 2007, the rate of interest credited to
deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the prime rates being
charged by the two largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the
end of the month coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said
interest is so credited; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis
points.  For the calendar year 2008 and
subsequent years, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal
to: (a) the average of the  prime rate  of interest published by The Wall
Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable successor quotation service on
the first business day of January and the last business day of each month
of the fiscal year; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis
points.  For purposes of this provision,
the term  deferred fees  shall include  deferred monthly fees,  and  deferred
meeting fees,  and shall also include any such interest credited thereon.  

3.8               For purposes of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and
3.6, the automatic deferral of the fees specified therein shall be subject to a
Director s election to receive such fees currently pursuant to Section 4.1
or Section 9.1 of the Plan.  

SECTION 4. 
PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS  FEES  

4.1               Any Director may, by written notice filed with the
Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year,
elect to receive current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and
meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in
which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall not be deferred but
shall be paid quarterly as earned and no interest shall be credited
thereon.  Such election shall be
irrevocable as of December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the
fees will be earned.  Notwithstanding the
timing requirements described above, an individual who is newly elected as a
Director may make the election described above by filing it with the Secretary
of the Company   

2     

within
the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first
becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan (and all plans that
would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i)),
 provided , that the compensation subject to such election relates solely
to services performed after the date of such election and  provided    further  ,  that such election shall become
irrevocable on the thirtieth day following the date he or she first becomes a
Director eligible to participate in the Plan. 
In no event shall the fees subject to an election under this Section 4.1
be paid later than the last day of the  applicable 2   month period , as such
term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  Any Director who has previously provided
notice pursuant to this Section 4.1 may, by written notice filed with the
Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year,
elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the monthly and meeting fees
earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the year in which he files such
notice, in which case such fees shall be paid to him in accordance with Section 4.2
below.  

4.2               A Director s deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan
shall commence to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following
the earlier of his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not
then serving as a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if
he serves as a Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65).  

4.3               A Director s deferred fees that have commenced to be
payable pursuant to Section 4.2 shall be payable in annual installments in
the order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e. the deferred fees and earnings
thereon for the earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date
provided for in Section 4.2, the deferred fees for the next earliest year
of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the
first installment, etc.).  

4.4               A Director s deferred fees shall continue to be paid
until all deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall
have been paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary).  

4.5               If a Director incurs a termination of service as a
Director within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in
Control (as defined below), the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s
deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such
Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such
termination of service;  provided ,  however , that if such Change in
Control does not constitute a  change in control event  (as defined in Treasury
Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5)), then the aggregate unpaid balance of such
Director s deferred fees shall be paid in accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3.  

Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, if a Director has made the alternative election set forth in Section 9.1,
and if such Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within five (5) years
following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance
of such Director s fees deposited to the Director s Grantor Trust (as defined
below) plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such
Director from the Director s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30)
days following the date of such termination of service.  

4.6               A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred
on the earliest of the following dates:  

3     

(i)                                         the date any Person is or becomes
the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not
including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities
acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more
of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities,
excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a
transaction described in clause (a) of paragraph (iii) below; or  

(ii)                                      the date the following individuals
cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then
serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors
and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office
is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but
not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of
the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or
nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved or
recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still
in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment,
election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended;
or  

(iii)                                   the date on which there is
consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect
subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other
than (a) a merger or consolidation (I) immediately following which
the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto
constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the
entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity
surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate
parent thereof and (II) which results in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in
combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities
under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company,
at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or
such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such
merger or consolidation, or (b) a merger or consolidation effected to
implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which
no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned
by such Person any securities acquired directly from the   

4     

Company or its
Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the
Company s then outstanding securities; or  

(iv)                                  the date the shareholders of the
Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or
there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of
all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or
disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets
to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of which are owned by shareholders of the Company, in combination
with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company
immediately prior to such sale.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be
deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record
holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such
transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate
ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the
Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  

For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth
in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial
Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange
Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of
the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof,
except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under
an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an
underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities,
or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders
of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of
stock of the Company.  

4.7               A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any
period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) or
(iv), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall
cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  

5     

(i)                                         The Company enters into an
agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change
in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this
paragraph (i) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other
termination of all such agreements.  

(ii)                                      Any Person (without regard to the
exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such
definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking
actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control;
provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (ii) shall
cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination
by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions
would be consummated.  

(iii)                                   Any Person becomes the Beneficial
Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or
more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or
the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities (not
including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were
acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates).  

(iv)                                  The Board of Directors adopts a
resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential
Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described
in this paragraph (iv) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the
Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing
for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer
exist.  

4.8               The provisions of Sections 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and this Section 4.8
may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this
Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during
the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date
five (5) years following such Change in Control.  

SECTION 5. 
DIRECTORS  RETIREMENT BENEFIT  

5.1               Effective April 30, 1998, each of the persons
serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 shall be credited with a
retirement benefit of $4,167 a month for 120 months of continuous service and
no additional retirement benefits shall accrue under the Plan. Each of the persons
serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 may elect: (a) to have his
or her retirement benefit under the Plan treated as provided in Section 5.2
of the Plan; or (b) to have the present value of that retirement benefit
credited to an unfunded phantom stock account and converted into phantom stock
units based on the closing price of the Company s common stock on April 30,
1998, with those phantom stock units then being credited with the same cash and
stock dividends,   

6     

stock
splits and other distributions and adjustments as are paid on the Company s
common stock. The phantom stock units shall be payable to the Director in
annual payments commencing on the first day of the calendar month next
following the earlier of the Director s death or termination of service as a
Director, in an amount determined by the closing price of the Company s common
stock on the first business day preceding the payment date. Unless the
retirement benefit is terminated, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid
on the anniversary of the day on which the first such retirement benefit
payment was made, until the benefit has been paid for ten years, or until the
death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die
with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due
hereunder, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid to the surviving spouse
of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or until the
death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.  

5.2               Any person serving as a Director on December 12,
1997 who elects to have his or her retirement benefit paid pursuant to this Section 5.2
shall receive a monthly benefit equal to $4,167. Payment of the monthly benefit
shall commence on the first day of the calendar month next following the
earlier of the Director s death or termination of service as a Director. Unless
the retirement benefit is terminated, the monthly benefit shall continue to be
paid on the first day of each calendar month thereafter, until the benefit has
been paid for one hundred and twenty (120) months, or until the death of the
Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die with such
benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due hereunder, the
monthly benefit shall continue to the surviving spouse of such Director until
all payments due hereunder have been made or until the death of the surviving
spouse, if earlier.  

5.3               Directors who retired on or before December 12, 1997
will receive the form and amount of retirement benefit payable under the terms
of the Plan in effect at the time of their retirement.  

5.4               Each Director who is granted a retirement benefit
hereunder shall make him or herself available for such consultation with the
Board of Directors or any committee or member thereof, as may be reasonably
requested from time to time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors,
following such Director s termination of service as a Director. The Company
shall reimburse each such Director for all reasonable travel, lodging and
subsistence expenses incurred by the Director at the request of the Company in
rendering such consultation. The Company may terminate the retirement benefit
if the Director should fail to render such consultation, unless prevented by
disability or other reason beyond the Director s control.  

5.5               It is recognized that during a Director s period of
service as a Director and as a consultant hereunder, a Director will acquire
knowledge of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, the disclosure of
which would be contrary to the best interests of the Company. Accordingly, the
Company may terminate the retirement benefit if, without the express consent of
the Company, the Director accepts election to the Board of Directors of,
acquires a partnership or proprietary interest in, or renders services as an
employee or consultant to, any business entity which is engaged in substantial
competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  

5.6               An individual will be considered a Director s  surviving
spouse  for purposes of Section 5 only if the Director and such individual
were married in a religious or civil ceremony   

7     

recognized
under the laws of the state where the marriage was contracted and the marriage
remained legally effective at the date of the Director s death.  

SECTION 6. 
CONVERSION TO COMMON STOCK UNITS  

6.1               Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by
written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, irrevocably elect to
have all or any portion of deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid,
transferred from the Director s Deferred Fee Account to a Stock Account
established under this Section 6. Any election as to a portion of such
fees shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be
applied to all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to
all deferred fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the
Director. A Director may make no more than one notional investment election
under this Section 6.l in any calendar year. All such elections may apply
only to deferred fees for which an election has not previously been made and
shall be irrevocable.  

6.2               Any Director may, by written notice filed with the
Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees
earned subsequent to the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account
established under this Section 6. Fees covered by such election shall be credited
to such account at the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which, such fees
are earned. Such election may be revoked or modified by such Director, by
written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, as to deferred fees to
be earned in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year such notice is
filed, but shall be irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior to such year.  

6.3               Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 6.1
shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so
credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the date the
notice of election under Section 6 is received by the Company (or the next
business day, if there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. Deferred fees credited to a Stock
Account under Section 6.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by
dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of
the Company as of the last business day of the calendar quarter for which the
credit is made, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting
System.  

6.4               Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with (or
adjusted for) the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other
distributions and adjustments as are received by or applicable to one common
share of the Company. All cash dividends and other cash distributions credited
to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional Common Stock Units by
dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing price of common
shares of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or distribution, as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  

6.5               The value of the Common Stock Units credited each
Director shall be paid the Director in cash on the dates specified in Section 4.3
(or, if applicable, Section 4.5). The amount of each payment shall be
determined by multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified
in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5) by the closing price
of common   

8     

shares
of the Company on the day prior to the payment date (or the next preceding
business day if there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  

SECTION 7. 
MISCELLANEOUS  

7.1               Each Director or former Director entitled to payment
of deferred fees hereunder, from time to time may name any person or persons
(who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director s
fees earned by him and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death
before he receives any or all of such deferred Director s fees.  Each designation will revoke all prior
designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be in form
prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the
Director or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during
his lifetime. If a deceased Director or former Director shall have failed to
name a beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by
a deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all
the Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees, the Company, in
its discretion, may direct payment of the remaining installments required by Section 4.3
to either:  

(a)                                      any one or more or all of the next
of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and
in such proportions as the Company determines; or  

(b)                                     the legal representative or
representatives of the estate of the last to die of the Director or former
Director and his last surviving beneficiary.  

The person or persons to whom any deceased
Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees are payable under this
Section will be referred to as his  beneficiary.   

7.2               Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of
any person shall not be construed to confer any right on the part of such
person to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company,
or to be reelected to the Board of Directors.  

7.3               Payment of deferred Directors  fees will be made only
to the person entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and
deferred Directors  fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other
obligations of persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or
involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. When a person entitled to a
payment under the Plan is under legal disability or, in the Company s opinion,
is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs,
the Company may direct that payment be made to such person s legal
representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for his benefit. Any
payment made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be in complete
discharge of the Company s obligation to make such payment under the Plan.  

7.4               Any action required or permitted to be taken by the
Company under the terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of
the members of the Board of Directors then in office.  

9     

7.5               Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary,
any amounts under the Plan that were earned and vested before January 1,
2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A) with respect to
a Director who retired before January 1, 2005 ( Grandfathered Amounts )
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan as administered and as
in effect on December 31, 2004. 
Amendments made to the Plan pursuant to this amendment and restatement
or otherwise shall not affect the Grandfathered Amounts unless expressly
provided for in the amendment.  The terms
and conditions applicable to the Grandfathered Amounts are set forth in Exhibit A
attached hereto.  

7.6               To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan
comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted
in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the
Plan to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and
effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to
the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, for all purposes of this Plan, a Director shall not be deemed to
have had a termination of service as a Director until the Director has incurred
a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and,
to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under
Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of
the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the
six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the
first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest
thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Section 9-8 (to the
extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection
9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have
been paid until the actual date of payment. 
In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each
installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for
purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  

SECTION 8. 
AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE  

While the Company expects to continue the
Plan, it must necessarily reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend
or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that any amendment or
discontinuance of the Plan shall be prospective in operation only, and shall
not affect the payment of any deferred Directors  fees theretofore earned by
any Director, or the conditions under which any such fees are to be paid or
forfeited under the Plan. Any discontinuance of the Plan by the Company shall
comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  

SECTION 9. 
ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF FEES  

9.1               By written notice filed with the Secretary of the
Company prior to each calendar year beginning after December 31, 1988, a
Director may elect to receive all or a portion of his fees earned in the
following calendar year in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.  An election under this Section 9.1 shall
become irrevocable as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the
year in which such monthly and meeting fees will be earned (or, in the case of
a new Director, on the 30  th   day following
the Director s first participation in the Plan and all plans that   

10     

would
be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i),
 provided , that the compensation subject to such election relates solely
to services performed after the date of such election).  

9.2               If payment of a Director s fees is made pursuant to Section 9.1,
such fees shall not be deferred and a portion of such fees shall be paid
currently in cash for the Director directly to a  Grantor Trust  established by
the Director, provided such trust is in a form which the Company determines to
be substantially similar to the trust attached to this plan as Exhibit 
and the balance of the fees shall be paid currently in cash directly to the
Director, provided that the payment made directly to the Director shall equal
the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to
the fees paid pursuant to this Section 9.2 (determined in accordance with Section 9.14).  In no event shall such fees be paid to the
Grantor Trust or directly to the Director later than the last day of the  applicable
2   month period , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  
1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  

9.3               The Company will establish and maintain four separate
accounts in the name of each Director who has made an election under Section 9.1
as follows: a  Pre-Tax Fee Account , an  After-Tax Fee Account , a  Pre-Tax
Stock Account  and an  After-Tax Stock Account  (collectively, the  Accounts ).  

(a)                                      The Pre-Tax Fee Account shall
reflect any fees paid in cash to a Director (including amounts deposited to a
Director s Grantor Trust) pursuant to Section 9.2, and interest to be
credited to a Director pursuant to Section 9.8.  The After-Tax Fee Account shall also reflect
such amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  

(b)                                     The Pre-Tax Stock Account shall
reflect the total amount of fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 6
and any adjustments made pursuant to that Section and Section 9.9.
The After-Tax Stock Account shall also reflect such amounts but shall be
maintained on an after-tax basis.  

(c)                                      The Accounts established pursuant to
this Section 9.3 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan
and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should
be implied.  

9.4       As of the end of each calendar year,
the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as follows:  

(a)       FIRST, charge, in any year in which
the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, an amount equal to the distribution from the fee account maintained
thereunder that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts
paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section   

(b)       NEXT, credit an amount equal to any fees
for that year, not converted to Common Stock Units, that are paid to the
Director (including the amount deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust)
according to Section 9.2; and  

11     

(c)              FINALLY, credit an amount equal to
the Interest earned for that year according to Section 9.8.  

9.5                                     As of the end of each calendar year,
the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Fee Account as follows:  

(a)           FIRST,
charge, in any year in which the Director is in receipt of a benefit
distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the
distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts
paid according to Section 9.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3,
multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in
the Director s After-Tax Fee Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and
the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as
of that same date;  

(b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the
fees not converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the
Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust according to Section 9.2;
and  

(c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to
the After-Tax Interest earned for that year according to Section 9.8  

9.6             As of the end of each calendar year,
the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as follows:  

(a)              FIRST, charge, in any year in which
the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the
Director if the aggregate amount of fees paid according to Section 9.2 had
instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made
under Section   

(b)             NEXT, credit an amount equal to any fees for that year
that are converted to Common Stock Units and paid to the Director (including
the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust to the stock account
maintained thereunder) according to Section 9.2;  

(c)             NEXT, credit an amount
equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and 

(d)             FINALLY, credit an amount equal to
the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 9.9.  

9.7                                     As of the end of each calendar year,
the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Stock Account as follows:  

(a)                                      FIRST, charge, in any year in which
the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor
Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would
have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 9.2
had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been
made under Section 6, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of
which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Stock Account as of the end of
the prior fiscal year  

12     

and
the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account
as of that same date;  

(b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the
fees converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director
directly to the Director s Grantor Trust and allocated to the stock account
maintained thereunder according to Section 9.2; and  

(c)                                     NEXT,
credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for
the year; and 

(d)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to
the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 9.9.  

9.8  

(a)                                      As of the end of each calendar year,
a Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest ( Interest )
at the following rate:  

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of
interest published by the Wall Street Journal (Mid-West Edition) or comparable
successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the
last business day of each month of the fiscal year;  

(ii)                                      plus two hundred twenty-five (225)
basis points.  

(b)                                     As of the end of each calendar year,
a Director s After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with the amount of
Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the
applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates determined in
accordance with subsection 9.14 (the  After-Tax Interest )).  

9.9                                     As of the end of each calendar year,
a Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account and After-Tax Stock Account shall be
adjusted as provided in Section 6.4, to the extent applicable, and shall
also be adjusted to reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of
the Company s common stock determined in accordance with Section 6.5,
except that (i) any reference to the payment date in such Section shall
mean December 31 of the applicable calendar year for purposes of this
Section, and (ii) adjustments to the After-Tax Stock Account shall be made
on an after-tax basis.  Such adjustments
shall be referred to as  Book Value Adjustments.   

9.10                               In addition to any fees paid to a
Director s Grantor Trust under Section 9.2 during the year, the Company
shall also make a payment to a Director s Grantor Trust (a  Guaranteed Rate
Payment ) for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the
excess, if any, of the Director s Net Interest Accrual (as defined below) over
the net earnings of the Director s deferred account maintained under the
Director s Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)
days beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  A Director s Net Interest Accrual for a year
is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the Director s
After-Tax Fee Account for that year in accordance with Section 9.8(b).  

9.11                               In addition to the fees paid under Section 9.2
during the year and the Guaranteed Rate Payment described above, the Company
shall also make a payment to a Director s Grantor  

13     

Trust (a  Guaranteed Principal Payment ) for
each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect, to be credited to the stock
account maintained thereunder.  The  Guaranteed
Principal Payment  shall equal the excess, if any, of 75 percent of the balance
of the Director s After-Tax Stock Account on December 31 over the balance
in the stock account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same
date. For the calendar year in which the last installment distribution is made
from the Director s Grantor Trust (meaning, the year that is X years following
the year of the event triggering the payments, where X is the same number of
years served by the Director), the payment made under this Section 9.11
shall equal the excess, if any, of 100 percent of the balance of the Director s
After-Tax Stock Account over the balance in the stock account maintained under
the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date.  Any Guaranteed Principal Payment required
under this Section 9.11 shall be made within the thirty (30) days
beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  

9.12                               Each Director s Grantor Trust assets
shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines
established by the Committee.  Such
investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee,
provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the
year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments
specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of
the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit B.  

9.13                               In addition to the fees paid under Section 9.2
and the payments provided by Section 9.10 and 9.11, each Director (or, if
the Director is deceased, the beneficiary designated under the Director s
Grantor Trust) shall be entitled to a Tax Gross Up payment for each year in
which the Grantor Trust is in effect. The  Tax Gross Up  shall equal: (a) the
amount necessary to compensate the Director (or beneficiary) for the net
increase in his or her federal, state and local income taxes as a result of the
inclusion in the Director s (or beneficiary s) taxable income of the income of
his or her Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate and Guaranteed Principal
Payments for that year; plus (b) an amount necessary to compensate the
Director (or beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above
as a result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this Section 9.13.  Any
Tax Gross-Up payments shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year
in which the Director remits the related taxes.  

9.14                               For purposes of Section 9, a
Director s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal
rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a
calculation under this Section is to be made and state and local tax rates
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in
effect in the state and locality of the Director s residence on the date such a
calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any
net capital losses. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is
not a citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on
the Director s benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor
Trust without a benefit for any net capital losses.  

9.15                              If a portion of a Director s
fees have been paid to a Grantor Trust pursuant to Section 9.2, then those
fees and earnings thereon shall be paid to him or her from the Grantor Trust in
the order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the earliest year of
service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor
Trust(s), the fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be
paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first 

14    

installment, etc.)  The
distribution of a Director s fees shall continue until all fees to which the
Director is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid in
accordance with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s).  

15    

Exhibit A  

ABBOTT
LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   

[Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as amended, as
filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Current Report on Form 8-K
dated February 17, 2006.]  

Exhibit B  

IRREVOCABLE
GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   

THIS RESTATED
AGREEMENT, made this
             day of
                            ,
2008, by and between
                          
of                       ,                 (the
 grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as
trustee (the  trustee ),  

WITNESSETH THAT:  

WHEREAS, the
grantor has established a trust known as the               
Grantor Trust , dated                              ,
to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories
Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as it may be amended from time to time; and  

WHEREAS, the
grantor, with the consent of the administrator of the referenced trust, desires
to amend the agreement creating the referenced trust ( trust agreement ) in
many respects and believes the trust agreement, as so amended, would be easier
to understand if restated.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, the grantor amends the trust agreement by substituting for it and
all prior amendments the following provisions which set forth all of the terms
and conditions relating to the administration, investment and distribution of
the trust property after this date:  

ARTICLE I 
Introduction   

I-1.    Name . 
This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be
referred to as the                              
Grantor Trust.   

I-2.   The Trust Fund .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all
property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  

I-3.  Status
of the Trust .  The trust shall be
irrevocable.  The trust is intended to
constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code,
as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  

I-4.  The
Administrator .  Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott )
shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain
powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the trustee from time
to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the
administrator.  The trustee may rely on
the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  

I-5.  Acceptance .  The trustee accepts the duties and
obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it
by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such   

funds (and any
proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this
agreement.  

ARTICLE II 
Distribution of the Trust Fund   

II-1.   Separate Accounts .  The administrator shall maintain two separate
accounts under the trust, a  deferred account  and a  stock account.  Funds
delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee
as directed by the administrator.  As of
the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with
all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each
account with its share of income and realized gains and charge each account
with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall be required to make
separate investments of the trust fund for the accounts, and may not administer
and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  

II-2.   Distributions Prior to the Grantor s Death .  Principal and accumulated income shall not be
distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s termination of service as a
Director of Abbott (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year
the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion
of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income
to be accumulated in the trust.  The
administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the
trust fund to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments,
commencing on the first day of the month next following the later of the
grantor s settlement date or the date the grantor attains age 65 years.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of
the number of installment distributions and the amount of each installment
distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully
protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  

II-3.   Distributions After the Grantor s Death .  The grantor, from time to time may name any
person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be
natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all
accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or,
if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s
spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the
grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If
the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as
beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall
be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse
beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor
directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s
spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of
the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the
beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income
beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3
other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the
year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may
elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior
designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the
grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of
distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a
beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall   

2    

distribute the
balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the
grantor s estate.  

II-4.   Facility of Payment .  When a person entitled to a distribution
hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any
way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs,
the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative,
or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the
preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for
such distribution hereunder.  

II-5.   Perpetuities .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the
last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of
this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance
in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  

ARTICLE III 
Management of the Trust Fund   

III-1.   General Powers .  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust
fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those
provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  

(a)                                     Subject to the
limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell,
purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all
assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such
terms and conditions as the trustee decides. 

(b)                                 To retain in cash such
amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the
balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in
common stock of Abbott Laboratories, or in obligations of the United States
Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of
the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or
collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any
such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper
despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability. 

(c)                                     To deposit cash in
any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee)
without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time
certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such
depositary. 

(d)                                    To invest, subject to
the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled
trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the
investment of trust funds. 

(e)                                     To borrow from
anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time
as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or
pledge all or part of the trust fund as security. 

3    

(f)                                       To retain any funds
or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to
decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court
of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained. 

(g)                                    To begin, maintain or
defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this
trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless
indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction. 

(h)                                    To compromise,
contest, settle or abandon claims or demands. 

(i)                                        To give proxies to
vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly
with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures,
reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of
any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion
rights. 

(j)                                        To hold securities
or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other
way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship. 

(k)                                     To divide or
distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind. 

(l)                                        To pay any tax
imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such
tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require
before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing
authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers
necessary for its Protection. 

(m)                                  To deal without
restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the
trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a
trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the
trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without
liability for any loss that may result. 

(n)                                    To appoint or remove
by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor
trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust
fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special
trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing
instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions
and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or
omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument. 

(o)                                    To appoint or remove
by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all
of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers,
duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee. 

(p)                                    To employ agents,
attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as
the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be  

4    

protected in
acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without
court action.  

(q)                                    To perform any and all
other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper
management, investment and distribution of the trust fund. 

III-2.   Principal and Income .  Any income earned on the trust fund, which is
not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from
time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall
include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including
principal and accumulated income.  

III-3.   Statements .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly
to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to
each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a
statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set
forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected
by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the
value thereof at the end of such period.  

III-4.   Compensation and Expenses .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses
incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the
trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons
employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale,
investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust
fund.  

5    

ARTICLE IV 
General Provisions   

IV-1.   Interests Not Transferable .  The interests of the grantor or other persons
entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other
obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred,
alienated, assigned or encumbered.  

IV-2.    Disagreement as to Acts .  If there is a disagreement between the
trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the
trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper
court.  

IV-3.   Trustee s Obligations .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed
on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine
whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the
trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or
distribution.  The trustee shall be
protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II
without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the
trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without
written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms
of this agreement.  

IV-4.   Good Faith Actions .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its
powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the
application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is
acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with
the trustee.  

IV-5.   Waiver of Notice .  Any notice required under this agreement may
be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  

IV-6.   Controlling Law .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall
govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and
all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and
distribution of the trust hereby created.  

IV-7.   Successors .  This agreement shall be binding on all
persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and
legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  

6    

ARTICLE V 
Changes in Trustee   

V-1.   Resignation or Removal of Trustee .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving
thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by
written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  

V-2.   Appointment of Successor Trustee .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in
the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor
trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then
living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or
distributions under this agreement.  A
successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  

V-3.   Duties of Resigning or Removed Trustee and
of Successor Trustee .  A trustee that
resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the
successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date
of its last account.  Each successor
trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor
without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee
shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of
record in the successor trustee.  Each successor
trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally
named trustee.  No successor trustee
shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor
trustee.  With the approval of the
administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the
property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for
so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor
trustee.  

ARTICLE VI 
Amendment and Termination   

VI-1.   Amendment .  With the consent of the administrator, this
trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living,
otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or
distributions hereunder, except as follows:  

(a)                                     The duties and
liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent. 

(b)  This trust may not be amended so as
to make the trust revocable.  

VI-2.   Termination .  This trust shall not terminate, and all
rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or
reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries
shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed
by the trustee as provided in Article II.  

*                                                                                            *                                                                                           * 

7    

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the grantor has executed this amending instrument as of the day and
year first above written.  

Grantor  

The
undersigned, as trustee, acknowledges receipt of the foregoing amending
instrument as of the day and year first above written.  

The Northern
  Trust Company as Trustee  

By  

Its  

The
undersigned, as a duly authorized representative of the administrator of the
trust, hereby consents to the foregoing amending instrument as of the day and
year first above written.  

Abbott
  Laboratories  

By  

Its  

8    

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.57>
 7
 a2196380zex-10_57.htm
 EX-10.57

Exhibit 10.57   

Abbott
Laboratories   

Description
of Base Salary of Named Executive Officers   

Set
forth below are the base salaries, effective December 31, 2009 and March 1,
2010, of Miles D. White, Thomas C. Freyman, John M. Capek, Laura J. Schumacher,
and James L. Tyree, all of whom were named executive officers in 2009.  

Miles D. White  

Thomas
C. Freyman  

John M. Capek  

Laura J. Schumacher  

James L. Tyree  

</EX-10.57>

<EX-12>
 8
 a2196380zex-12.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit 12   

Abbott
Laboratories   

   Computation
of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

  (Unaudited)  

  (dollars in millions)  

NOTE: For the purpose of calculating this ratio, (i) earnings
from continuing operations have been calculated by adjusting earnings from
continuing operations for taxes on earnings from continuing operations;
interest expense; amortization of capitalized interest, net of capitalized
interest; noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries; and the portion of rentals
representative of the interest factor, (ii) Abbott considers one-third of
rental expense to be the amount representing return on capital, and (iii) fixed
charges comprise total interest expense, including capitalized interest and
such portion of rentals.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 a2196380zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   

SUBSIDIARIES OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

The following is a
list of subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories as of February 15, 2010.  Abbott Laboratories is not a subsidiary of
any other corporation.  Where ownership
of a subsidiary is less than 100% by Abbott Laboratories or an Abbott
Laboratories  subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of
ownership.  

Domestic Subsidiaries   

Incorporation   

Abbott
  Administration Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Bioresearch Center, Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Biotech
  Ventures Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Cardiovascular Systems Inc.  

California  

Abbott
  Cardiovascular, Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Delaware
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Diabetes
  Care Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Diabetes
  Care Sales Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Endocrine
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Endocrinology Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Equity
  Investments LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Exchange
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Health
  Products, Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Home
  Infusion Services of New York, Inc.  

New York  

Abbott
  International LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Investment Holdings Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Laboratories Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Laboratories International Co.  

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Pacific Ltd.  

Illinois  

Abbott
  Laboratories Purchasing Company, LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Laboratories Residential Development Fund, Inc.  

Illinois  

Abbott Laboratories Services Corp.  

Illinois  

Abbott
  Laboratories (Puerto Rico) Incorporated  

Puerto Rico  

Abbott Management
  Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Medical
  Optics Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Mexico
  LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Molecular
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Nutrition
  Manufacturing Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Personnel
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Pharmaceutical Corporation  

Delaware  

Abbott Point of
  Care Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Resources
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Resources
  International Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott
  Respiratory LLC  

Delaware  

Abbott Trading
  Company, Inc.  

Virgin Islands  

Abbott Universal
  Ltd.  

Delaware  

Abbott Vascular
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Abbott Vascular
  Solutions Inc.  

Indiana  

Abbott Ventures
  Inc.  

Delaware  

Aeropharm
  Technology, LLC  

Delaware  

AMO Development,
  LLC  

Delaware  

AMO
  Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

AMO
  Manufacturing USA, LLC  

Delaware  

AMO Nominee
  Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

AMO Sales and
  Service, Inc.  

Delaware  

AMO Spain
  Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

AMO U.K.
  Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

AMO US
  Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

AMO USA Sales Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

AMO USA, LLC  

Delaware  

AMO WaveFront
  Sciences, LLC  

New Mexico  

Aspen
  Acquisition I, Inc.  

Delaware  

AVI Corp.  

Delaware  

Bioabsorbable
  Vascular Solutions, Inc.  

Delaware  

BioDisplay
  Technologies, Inc.  

Illinois  

CG
  Nutritionals, Inc.  

Delaware  

CMM
  Transportation, Inc.  

Delaware  

CynoGen Inc.  

Delaware  

Evalve
  International Inc.  

Delaware  

Evalve, Inc.  

Delaware  

Fournier Pharma,
  Corp.  

Delaware  

Gene-Trak
  Systems Industrial Diagnostics Corp.  

Delaware  

Gene-Trak, Inc.  

Delaware  

Ibis
  Biosciences, Inc.  

Delaware  

IEP
  Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC  

Florida  

IMTC
  Technologies, Inc.  

Delaware  

Innogenetics
  Inc.  

Georgia  

Integrated
  Surgical Solutions, LLC  

Delaware  

Integrated
  Vascular Systems, Inc.  

Delaware  

i-STAT
  Europe, Inc.  

Delaware  

IVD Instruments,
  LLC  

Delaware  

Knoll LLC  

Puerto Rico  

Knoll
  Pharmaceutical Company  

New Jersey  

Kos
  Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

Delaware  

Murex Diagnostics, Inc.  

Delaware  

Natural
  Supplement Association, Incorporated  

Colorado  

North Shore
  Properties, Inc.  

Delaware  

Organics L.L.C.  

Delaware  

PDD II, LLC  

Delaware  

PDD, LLC  

Delaware  

Pegasus One, LLC  

Delaware  

Quest Vision
  Technology, Inc.  

California  

Rowell
  Laboratories, Inc.  

Minnesota  

S   G
  Nutritionals, Inc.  

Delaware  

Solartek
  Products, Inc.  

Delaware  

Solvay
  Biologicals, LLC  

Delaware  

Solvay Pharma
  U.S. Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

Georgia  

Swan-Myers,
  Incorporated  

Indiana  

Tobal Products
  Incorporated  

Illinois  

Unimed
  Pharmaceuticals, LLC  

Delaware  

Vectoris
  Corporation  

California  

Visiogen, Inc.  

Delaware  

Woodside
  Biomedical, Inc.  

Delaware  

X Technologies
  Inc.  

Delaware  

ZonePerfect
  Nutrition Company  

Delaware  

International Subsidiaries   

Incorporation   

Solvay Pharma Alg rie EURL  

Algeria  

Abbott Laboratories Argentina Sociedad
  Anonima  

Argentina  

Murex Argentina S.A.  

Argentina  

Abbott Australasia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

AMO Australia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

EAS Australia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

Solvay Biosciences Pty Ltd.  

Australia  

Abbott Gesellschaft
  m.b.H.  

Austria  

Solvay-Pharma
  Gesellschaft m.b.H.  

Austria  

Abbott Bahamas Overseas Businesses
  Corporation  

Bahamas  

Abbott Hospital Limited  

Bahamas  

Abbott Laboratories (Bangladesh)
  Limited  

Bangladesh  

Murex Diagnostics
  International, Inc.  

Barbados  

Abbott Belgian Investments SPRL  

Belgium  

AMO Belgium  

Belgium  

Abbott Belgian Pension Fund A.S.B.L.  

Belgium  

Abbott S.A.  

Belgium  

Abbott Vascular International BVBA  

Belgium  

Genimmune NV  

Belgium  

Innogenetics NV  

Belgium  

Solvay Pharma SA  

Belgium  

Abbott Biotechnology Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Abbott Diagnostics International, Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Abbott Ireland  

Bermuda  

Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Abbott Strategic Opportunities Limited  

Bermuda  

Abbott Druvsto sa orgranicenom
  odgovornoscum za trgovinu l usluge  

Bosnia  

Abbott
  Laboratories do Brasil Ltda.  

Brazil  

Solvay Farma Ltda  

Brazil  

Instituto em
  diagnostico Molecular Theranostica Ltda.  

Brazil  

Solvay Pharma
  EOOD  

Bulgaria  

Abbott (Cambodia)
  LLC  

Cambodia  

Abbott
  Laboratories, Limited  

Canada  

Abbott Point of Care Canada Limited  

Canada  

Experimental   Applied
  Sciences Canada Inc.  

Canada  

Toba Pharma Inc.  

Canada  

International Murex Technologies
  Corporation  

Canada  

AMO Canada Company  

Canada  

Solvay Pharma Canada Inc.  

Canada  

Solvay Pharma, Inc  

Canada  

Unimed Canada, Inc  

Canada  

Fournier Pharma, Inc  

Canada  

AMO Global Holdings  

Cayman Islands, B.W.I.  

AMO Ireland  

Cayman Islands  

AMO Puerto Rico
  Manufacturing, Inc.  

Cayman Islands  

VISX  

Cayman Islands  

Abbott
  Laboratories de Chile Limitada  

Chile  

Abbott
  Laboratories de Colombia, S.A.  

Colombia  

Abbott Healthcare Costa Rica, S.A.  

Costa Rica  

Abbott Laboratories drustvo s
  ogranicenom odgovomoscu za trgovinu za i usluge  

Croatia  

Solvay Pharma d.o.o.  

Croatia  

Abbott Overseas Subsidiary Holding
  (Cyprus) Limited  

Cyprus  

Abbott Laboratories, s.r.o.  

Czech Republic  

Solvay Pharma s.r.o.  

Czech Republic  

Abbott Laboratories A/S  

Denmark  

AMO Denmark ApS  

Denmark  

Solvay Pharma ApS  

Denmark  

Abbott
  Laboratorios del Ecuador Cia. Ltda.  

Ecuador  

Abbott Limited
  Egypt LLC  

Egypt  

Sodufa Ltd  

Egypt  

Sodufa
  Pharmaceuticals Ltd  

Egypt  

Solvay Pharma
  Egypt LLC  

Egypt  

Abbott, S.A. de
  C.V.  

El Salvador  

Abbott OY  

Finland  

Solvay Pharma Oy  

Finland  

AMO France S.A.S.  

France  

Abbott France Instruments S.A.S.  

France  

Abbott France S.A.S.  

France  

Solvay Pharmaceuticals SAS  

France  

Vivalsol SNC  

France  

Solvay Pharma SAS  

France  

Laboratoires Fournier SA  

France  

Fournier Industrie et
  Sante SAS  

France  

Innogenetics France
  SARL  

France  

Abbott Biotechnology Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Diagnostics G.m.b.H.  

Germany  

Abbott GmbH   Co. KG  

Germany  

Abbott Holding GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Management GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Vascular Instruments
  Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Vascular
  Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

Visiogen Europe GmbH  

Germany  

AMO Germany GmbH  

Germany  

Solvay Arzneimittel
  GmbH  

Germany  

Solvay Pharmaceuticals
  GmbH  

Germany  

Fournier Pharma GmbH  

Germany  

Innogenetics GmbH  

Germany  

Abbott Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar)
  Limited  

Gibraltar  

Abbott Holding (Gibraltar) Limited  

Gibraltar  

Abbott Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited  

Gibraltar  

Abbott Asia (Gibraltar) Limited  

Gibraltar  

Abbott Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.  

Greece  

Fournier Hellas SA  

Greece  

Solvay Pharma MEPE  

Greece  

Abbott Grenada Limited  

Grenada  

Abbott Laboratorios, S.A.  

Guatemala  

AMO Asia Limited  

Hong Kong  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

Hong Kong  

Abbott Laboratories (Hungary) Health
  Products and Medical Equipment Trading and Servicing Limited Liability
  Company  

Hungary  

Solvay Pharma KFT  

Hungary  

Abbott Healthcare Private Limited  

India  

Abbott Medical Optics India Private
  Limited  

India  

PT. Abbott Indonesia  

India  

Solvay Pharma India Limited  

India  

Abbott India Limited  

India  

PT Solvay Pharma Indonesia  

Indonesia  

AMO International Holdings  

Ireland  

AMO Ireland Export Limited  

Ireland  

AMO Regional Holdings  

Ireland  

Abbott Ireland Holdings Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Laboratories Vascular
  Enterprises Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Laboratories Ireland, Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Mature Products International
  Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Mature Products Management
  Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Nutrition Limited  

Ireland  

Abbott Products  

Ireland  

Abbott Vascular Devices Ireland Limited  

Ireland  

Allergan Trading International Limited  

Ireland  

BiodivYsio Limited  

Ireland  

Cartoid Interventional Systems Limited  

Ireland  

Salviac Limited  

Ireland  

Mednova Limited  

Ireland  

Solvay Healthcare Ltd.  

Ireland  

Fournier Laboratories Ireland ltd.  

Ireland  

Scorpio Designated Corporation Ltd.  

Israel  

Abbott AVI s.r.l.  

Italy  

Abbott S.r.l.  

Italy  

Abbott Vascular Knoll-Ravizza S.p.A  

Italy  

Autonomous Employee Welfare Fund for
  Abbott S.p.A. Dirigenti  

Italy  

AMO Italy S.R.L.  

Italy  

Innogenetics
  S.r.L.  

Italy  

Solvay Pharma
  S.p.A.  

Italy  

Abbott West
  Indies Limited  

Jamaica  

AMO Japan K.K.  

Japan  

Abbott Japan Co.
  Ltd  

Japan  

Abbott Vascular Japan Co., Ltd  

Japan  

Solvay Seiyaku KK  

Japan  

Abbott Korea Limited  

Korea, South  

Abbott Laboratories Baltics  

Latvia  

Abbott Middle East S.A.R.L.  

Lebanon  

UAB  Abbott Laboratories   

Lithuania  

Solvay Pharma UAB  

Lithuania  

Abbott International
  Luxembourgh S.ar.l.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Investments Luxembourg S.ar.l.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Overseas Luxembourg S.ar.l.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Asia (Gibraltar) Limited
  Luxembourg S.C.S.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar)
  Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar)
  Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Holdings Luxembourg S.ar.l Dutch
  S.C.S.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Holdings Luxembourg S.ar.l Swiss
  S.C.S.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Holdings Luxembourg S.ar.l.  

Luxembourg  

Abbott Laboratories (Malaysia) Sdn.
  Bhd.  

Malaysia  

AMO Malta Limited  

Malta  

Abbott Laboratories de
  Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico  

I talmex SA  

Mexico  

Abbott Laboratories (Mozambique)
  Limitada  

Mozambique  

Abbott B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Biotechnology Netherlands B.V.  

Netherlands  

AMO Groningen B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Knoll Investments B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Laboratories B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Logistics B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Nederland C.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott PR Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

Abbott Vascular Devices Holland B.V.  

Netherlands  

AMO Netherlands BV  

Netherlands  

AMO Groningen B.V.  

Netherlands  

EAS International B.V.  

Netherlands  

IMTC Finance B.V.  

Netherlands  

IMTC Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

MediSense Europe B.V.  

Netherlands  

Sodufa BV  

Netherlands  

Solvay Pharmaceuticals BV  

Netherlands  

Solvay Pharma BV  

Netherlands  

Octrooibureau Zoan BV  

Netherlands  

Duphar International Research BV  

Netherlands  

Solvay Biologicals BV  

Netherlands  

Abbott Laboratories NZ Limited  

New Zealand  

EAS Asia/Pacific Limited  

New Zealand  

Abbott Norge AS  

Norway  

AMO Norway AS  

Norway  

Solvay Pharma AS  

Norway  

Abbott Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited  

Pakistan  

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.  

Panama  

Abbott Overseas, S.A.  

Panama  

Abbott (Guangzhou) Nutritionals Co.,
  Ltd  

People s Republic of
  China  

AMO (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd  

People s Republic of
  China  

AMO (Shanghai) Medical Devices Trading
  Co., Ltd  

People s Republic of
  China  

Abbott Laboratories Trading (Shanghai)
  Co., Ltd  

People s Republic of
  China  

Guidant International Trading
  (Shanghai) Co., Ltd  

People s Republic of
  China  

Shanghai Abbott Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd  

People s Republic of
  China  

Abbott Laboratorios S.A.  

Peru  

Abbott Laboratories (Phillippines)  

Philippines  

Union-Madison Realty Company, Inc.  

Philippines  

Solvay Pharma Inc., Philippines  

Philippines  

Abbott Laboratories Poland Sp. zo.o  

Poland  

Solvay Pharma Sp.z.o.o.  

Poland  

Fournier Polska Sp.
  z.o.o.  

Poland  

Abbott Laboratorios,
  Limitada  

Portugal  

Abbottfarma-Promocao
  de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

Knoll-Promocao de
  Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

MediSense-Promocao
  de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

Premier-Promocao
  de Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda  

Portugal  

Solvay Farma Lda.  

Portugal  

Voxfarma Prodctos
  Farmaceiticos, Unipessoal Lda.  

Portugal  

Solvay Romania
  SRL  

Romania  

Limited Liability Company Abbott
  Laboratories  

Russia  

Solvay Pharma OOO  

Russia  

AMO Singapore Pte. Limited  

Singapore  

Abbott Laboratories (Singapore) Private
  Limited  

Singapore  

Abbott Manufacturing Singapore Private
  Limited  

Singapore  

Solvay Pharma Singapore  

Singapore  

Abbott Laboratories Slovakia s.r.o.  

Slovakia  

Solvay Pharma S.r.o.  

Slovakia  

Abbott Laboratories druzba za farmacijo
  in diagnostiko d.o.o.  

Slovenia  

Abbott Laboratories South Africa
  (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Experimental   Applied
  Sciences Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Knoll Pharmaceuticals South Africa
  (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Murex Biotech South Africa
  (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Murex Diagnostics South Africa
  (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

Solvay Pharma (Pty) Ltd.  

South Africa  

AMO Manufacturing Spain S.L.  

Spain  

Abbott Cientifica, S.A.  

Spain  

Abbott Laboratories, S.A.  

Spain  

Abbott Medical Optics Spain, S.L.  

Spain  

Bioresearch Espana, S.A.  

Spain  

Fundacion Abbott  

Spain  

Liade Sociedad Anomina (S.A.)  

Spain  

Solvay Pharma SA  

Spain  

Duphar Nezel SL  

Spain  

Innogenetics Diagnostica Iberia, S.L.  

Spain  

Abbott Scandinavia AB  

Sweden  

Abbott Medical Optics Norden AB  

Sweden  

Advanced Medical Optics Uppsala AB  

Sweden  

Solvay Pharma AB  

Sweden  

Abbott AG  

Switzerland  

Abbott Finance Company S.A.  

Switzerland  

Abbott Laboratories S.A.  

Switzerland  

Abbott Service AG  

Switzerland  

AMO Switzerland GmbH  

Switzerland  

Knoll-Bioresearch AG  

Switzerland  

Solvay Pharma AG  

Switzerland  

Solvay Pharma Marketing  
  Licensing AG  

Switzerland  

Abbott Fund Tanzania Limited  

Tanzania  

Abbott Laboratories Tanzania Limited
  Tanzania  

Tanzania  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

Thailand  

Solvay Thailand  

Thailand  

Solvay Pharma Tunisic Sarl  

Tunisia  

Abbott Laboratuarfari ithalat lhracat
  Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi  

Turkey  

Solvay Ilac VE Ecza Ticaret Sirteki
  (Solvay Pharma Turkey)  

Turkey  

AMO United Kingdom Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott (UK) Finance Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott (UK) Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Asia Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Iberian Investments Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Iberian Investments
  (2) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Asia Investments Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Capital India Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Diabetes Care Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Equity Holdings Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Investments Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Trustee Company
  Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Vascular Devices Limited  

United Kingdom  

Abbott vascular Devices
  (2) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Experimental and Applied Sciences UK
  Limited  

United Kingdom  

IMTC Holdings (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

i-STAT Limited  

United Kingdom  

Knoll UK Investments Unlimited  

United Kingdom  

Murex Biotech (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

Murex Biotech Limited  

United Kingdom  

Therasense UK Limited  

United Kingdom  

Vysis (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

British Colloids Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

Solvay Healthcare Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

Mansbridge Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

Fournier Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

Abbott Laboratories Uruguay S.A.  

Uruguay  

Abbott Laboratories C.A.  

Venezuela  

Abbott Trading Company, Inc  

Virgin Islands  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 a2196380zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-158782 on Form S-8
for the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381, 333-69547, 333-93253,
333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850, and 333-158782 on Form S-8 for the Abbott
Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179, 333-124851, and 333-153200 on
Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685, 33-50452, 33-51585,
33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257, 333-74224, 333-102180,
333-109253, 333-124849, 333-141116, and 333-153198 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Program and Trusts;
Registration Statement No. 333-158124 on Form S-8 for the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, the
2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, the Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, the VISX,
Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral Plan, as amended and restated, and the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock Plan, as amended; and Registration
Statement
Nos. 333-109132, 333-132104, 333-157290, and 333-158128 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 19, 2010, relating to
the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (which report relating to the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an
explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard in 2009), and the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' internal control over financial reporting appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

/s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2010   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a2196380zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

Certification of Chief Executive Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

  I,
Miles D. White, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2010  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a2196380zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

Certification of Chief Financial Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

  I,
Thomas C. Freyman, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 19, 2010  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a2196380zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2010  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a2196380zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Thomas C. Freyman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 19, 2010  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 abt-20091231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 abt-20091231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 abt-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 abt-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 19
 abt-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 abt-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

