<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120221_10-K_edgar_data_1800_0001047469-12-001216_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>14620616</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>318453</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2861892</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3100362</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5329064</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2614302</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>67</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-12-001216.hdr.sgml : 20120220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120221151118
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-12-001216
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120221
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		12626569

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8479376100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-12-001216.txt : 20120221

10-K
 1
 a2207147z10-k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549   

FORM 10-K     

Abbott Laboratories     

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Shares, Without Par Value  

New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to submit and post such files).     

   Yes                No         

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

Large Accelerated Filer       
     
   Accelerated Filer       
     
   Non-accelerated Filer       
     
   Smaller Reporting Company       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     

   Yes                No         

The aggregate market value of the 1,503,071,318 shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of Abbott Laboratories' most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2011), was $79,091,612,753. Abbott has no
non-voting common equity.     

   Number of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2012: 1,572,356,859     

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

   Portions of the 2012 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2012.     

Table of Contents    

    PART I     

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

    GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS     

          Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development,
manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products.   

    FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS     

          Incorporated herein by reference is Note 6 entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to Humira  included in "Financial Review."   

    NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS     

          Abbott has five reportable revenue segments: Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Established Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic
Products, Nutritional Products, and Vascular Products.   

          On
October 19, 2011, Abbott announced that it plans to separate into two publicly traded companies, one in diversified medical products and the other in research-based
pharmaceuticals. The diversified medical products company will consist of Abbott's existing diversified medical products portfolio, including its branded generic pharmaceutical, devices, diagnostic
and nutritional businesses, and will retain the Abbott name. The research-based pharmaceutical company will include Abbott's current portfolio of proprietary pharmaceuticals and biologics and will be
named later.   

*    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott" refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or
Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

Table of Contents    

    Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide (except as noted)
and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and
public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or
co-promoted with other companies.   

          The
principal products included in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment are:  

Humira , for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis,
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and Crohn's disease;   
           TriCor , Trilipix , Simcor , and Niaspan , for the treatment of
dyslipidemia (marketed and sold in the United States);   
           Kaletra , also marketed as Aluvia , and Norvir , protease inhibitors for the treatment
of HIV infection;   
           Lupron , also marketed as Lucrin , and Lupron Depot , used for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids;    
           Synagis , for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV);    
           AndroGel , for the treatment of adult males who have low testosterone (marketed and sold in the United
States);   
           the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold in the United States under the trademark Ultane  and outside of the
United States primarily under the trademark Sevorane  and in a few other markets as Ultane ), isoflurane, and enflurane;   
           Zemplar , for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic kidney
disease and Stage 5 treatment;   
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism (marketed and sold in the United States); and    
           Creon , for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis (marketed and sold in the United States).    

The
Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of Abbott's brand of products by physicians.
Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) and state and federal governments and agencies (for example, the United States Department of
Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers.   

Competition
in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. The search for technological innovations in
pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition in this segment. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product
obsolescence in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures
on pharmaceutical products that do not have patent protection.   

  2  

Table of Contents   

    Established Pharmaceutical Products     

          These products include a broad line of branded generic pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold outside the United States and
are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and
independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other
companies.   

          The
principal products included in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment are:  

Creon , for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions,
including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis (marketed and sold outside the United States);   
           the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Biaxin , Klacid , and
Klaricid    
           Influvac , an influenza vaccine available during flu season;    
           Serc , for the treatment of M ni re's disease and vestibular vertigo;    
           Brufen , for the treatment of pain, fever and inflammation;    
           Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism (marketed and sold outside the United States);    
           Duspatal  and Dicetel , for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome or biliary spasm;    
           Duphaston , for the treatment of many different gynecological disorders;    
           Adomet , Heptral , Transmetil , Samyr , and Donamet , for the
treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis (associated with liver disease) or depressive symptoms;   
           Duphalac , for regulation of the physiological rhythm of the colon;    
           Lipanthyl  and TriCor , for the treatment of dyslipidemia (marketed and sold outside the United
States); and   
           Teveten  and Teveten  Plus, for the treatment of essential hypertension, and
Physiotens , for the treatment of hypertension.    

The
Established Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of Abbott's brand of products by physicians
both in the primary care and secondary (hospital) care environment. Government agencies are also important customers.   

Competition
in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. Changes to government tenders and reimbursement schemes
are significant factors with respect to pricing. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed and introduction of additional forms of already marketed established products
by generic or branded competitors have increased competitive pressures.   

    Diagnostic Products     

          These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide to blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians' offices, government agencies, alternate-care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies. The segment's products are
generally marketed and sold directly from Abbott-owned distribution centers, public warehouses and third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or
through distributors, depending on the market served.   

  3  

Table of Contents   

          The
principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are:  

immunoassay and clinical chemistry systems, including ARCHITECT , AxSYM , and ABBOTT
PRISM    
           assays used for screening and/or diagnosis for drugs of abuse, cancer, therapeutic drug monitoring, fertility,
physiological diseases, and infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV;   
           the m2000 , an instrument that automates the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from
patient samples, and detects and measures infectious agents including HIV, HBV, HCV, HPV, and CT/NG;   
           the Vysis  product line of genomic-based tests, including the PathVysion  HER-2 DNA
probe kit; the UroVysion  bladder cancer recurrence kit; and the Vysis ALK Break Apart FISH Probe Kit, the only FDA-approved companion diagnostic to Pfizer's approved
non-small-cell lung cancer therapy XALKORI    
           informatics and automation solutions for use in the laboratory;   
           a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the Cell-Dyn  series; and    
           the i-STAT  point-of-care diagnostic systems and tests for blood analysis.    

In
addition, under a distribution agreement with Celera Group, the Diagnostic Products segment exclusively distributes certain Celera molecular diagnostic products, including the
ViroSeq  HIV genotyping system and products used for the detection of mutations in the CFTR gene, which causes cystic fibrosis.   

          The
Diagnostic Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid
product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.   

    Nutritional Products     

          These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These
products are generally marketed and sold directly to customers and to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government
agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers or third-party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through
distributors, depending on the market served.   

          Principal
products in the Nutritional Products segment include:  

various forms of prepared infant formula and follow-on formula, including
Similac Advance , Similac  Advance  with EarlyShield , Similac , Similac  with Iron, Similac Sensitive ,
Similac Sensitive  RS, Similac Go Grow , Similac  NeoSure , Similac  Organic, Similac Special Care , Similac  Total
Comfort , Isomil  Advance , Isomil , Alimentum , Gain , and Grow    
           adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus ,
Ensure  Muscle Health, Ensure  (with Nutrivigor ), Glucerna , Glucerna  Hunger Smart , ProSure ,
PediaSure , PediaSure Sidekicks , EleCare , Juven , Abound , and Pedialyte    
           nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity ,
Glucerna  1.2 Cal, Glucerna  1.5 Cal, Osmolite , Oxepa , Freego (Enteral Pump) and Freego  sets, and Nepro  and    
 
  4  

Table of Contents   

Zone Perfect  bars and the EAS  family of nutritional brands, including Myoplex  and
AdvantEdge .    

Primary
marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
addition, certain nutritional products sold as Gain , Grow , PediaSure , PediaSure Sidekicks , Pedialyte , Ensure , Zone
Perfect , EAS /Myoplex , and Glucerna  are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in select markets.   

          Competition
for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, intellectual property, price, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The
introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers'
products may increase competitive pressure.   

    Vascular Products     

          These products include a broad line of coronary, endovascular, vessel closure, and structural heart devices for the treatment of
vascular disease manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. The segment's products are generally marketed and sold directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses.
Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

          The
principal products included in the Vascular Products segment are:  

Xience Prime , Xience nano , and Xience V , drug-eluting stent systems
developed on the Multi-Link Vision  platform;   
           Multi-Link 8 , Multi-Link Vision  and Multi-Link Mini
Vision , coronary metallic stents;   
           TREK  and Voyager , balloon dilatation products;    
           Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Elite  and ASAHI  coronary guidewires (licensed from
Asahi Intecc Co., Ltd.);   
           StarClose  and Perclose  vessel closure devices;    
           Acculink /Accunet  and Xact /Emboshield NAV 6  , carotid stent
systems;   
           MitraClip , a percutaneous valve repair system; and   
           Absorb , a drug-eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold.    

The
Vascular Products segment's products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply
contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.
Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.   

    Other Products     

          The principal products in Abbott's other businesses include blood glucose monitoring meters, test strips, data management software and
accessories for people with diabetes, including the FreeStyle  product line, and medical devices for the eye, including cataract surgery, LASIK surgery, contact lens care products, and dry
eye products. These products are mostly marketed worldwide and generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care facilities, mail order pharmacies, and independent   

  5  

Table of Contents   

  retailers
from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Some of these products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Blood glucose monitoring meters, contact lens care
products, and dry eye products are also marketed and sold over-the-counter to consumers. These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price,
convenience of use, service, and product performance. Medical devices for the eye also can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes.   

    INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL     

    Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and abroad. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

    Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses     

          Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and
trademarks are sought and obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents
and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on pages 1 through 6. These, and various patents which expire
during the period 2012 to 2031, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related
group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira ), are material in relation to Abbott's business as a whole.
The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patents covering adalimumab will expire in December 2016. In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant for
Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products segment: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra  and Aluvia ), those related to fenofibrate (which is
sold under the trademarks TriCor  and Trilipix ), those related to niacin (which is sold under the trademarks Niaspan  and Simcor ), and those related
to testosterone (which is sold under the trademark AndroGel ). The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir will expire in 2016. The United States
non-composition of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir will expire in 2016. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fenofibrate
products will expire in 2018, 2020, 2023, and 2025. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the niacin products will expire in 2013, 2017, and 2018. The
principal non-composition of matter patent covering AndroGel  will expire in 2020 for the 1.62% formulation and, due to pediatric exclusivity, in 2021 for the 1% formulation.
Litigation related to the products listed above is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 17 through 21. Agreements that may affect exclusivity are discussed in Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations" on pages 28 through 50.   

          Although
the expiration of a composition of matter patent may lead to increased competition, in most cases Abbott owns or has a license to other patents that expire after the composition
of matter patent related to particular formulations, uses, or processes for manufacturing the pharmaceutical. These non-composition of matter patents and Abbott's other intellectual
property, along with such other factors as a competitor's need to obtain regulatory approvals prior to marketing a competitive product and the nature of the market, may allow Abbott to continue to
have commercial advantages after the expiration of the composition of matter patent, including in some instances exclusivity.   

    Seasonal Aspects, Customers, Backlog, and Renegotiation     

          There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. Abbott has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would
have a material adverse effect on Abbott. Orders for Abbott's products are   

  6  

Table of Contents   

  generally
filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No material portion of Abbott's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts
at the election of the government.   

    Research and Development     

          Abbott spent $4,129,414,000 in 2011, $3,724,424,000 in 2010, and $2,743,733,000 in 2009, on research to discover and develop new
products and processes and to improve existing products and processes. The majority of research and development expenditures is concentrated on proprietary pharmaceutical products.   

    Environmental Matters     

          Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. Abbott's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2011 were approximately $14 million and $60 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2012
are estimated to be $7 million and $64 million, respectively.   

          Abbott
has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under
the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities,
Abbott believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse
effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

    Employees     

          Abbott employed approximately 91,000 persons as of December 31, 2011.   

    Regulation     

          The development, manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of Abbott's products are subject to comprehensive government
regulation. Government regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, both domestic and international, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls over, research and
laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control,
post-market surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. Abbott's international operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import
of raw materials and finished products and by local and international laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act which provide among other things, guidance on corporate interactions with government officials). In addition, Abbott is subject to laws and regulations
pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug, nutrition, and medical device
manufacturers such as Abbott are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees. Governmental agencies can also invalidate intellectual property rights and
control the entrance of multi-source drugs for small molecule and generic biologic medicines.   

  7  

Table of Contents   

          Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects Abbott's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. Abbott expects this regulatory environment will continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.   

In
addition to regulatory initiatives, Abbott's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their
components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed
products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products domestically or globally, and may give rise to claims for
damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

          Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States
and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have
instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. Abbott expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of healthcare products. Outside the United States, many
countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Domestic and foreign budgetary
pressures may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on Abbott's products for the foreseeable future.   

          Specifically,
U.S. federal laws requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under
state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates, affect Abbott's proprietary pharmaceutical business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers
to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service entities and
institutions, as well as certain other covered entities. The Act also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to
designated health care facilities.   

          In
the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or
Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a
fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures
for many health care products. End stage renal disease treatment is covered through a bundled payment that likewise creates
incentives for providers to control costs. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for medicine delivered under Part D.   

In
March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the "Affordable Care Act"). Under the
Affordable Care Act, Abbott pays a fee related to its pharmaceutical sales to government programs. Also in 2011, Abbott began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs
sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole." In 2013, manufacturers are scheduled to begin paying an   

  8  

Table of Contents   

  excise
tax on sales of medical devices. Medicare is also implementing a competitive bidding system for durable medical equipment, enteral nutrition products, and supplies.   

          The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under
Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are
considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.   

          In
the United States, governmental cost containment efforts also affect Abbott's nutrition business. Under regulations governing the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition
Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), all states must have a cost containment program for infant formula. As a result, through competitive bidding states obtain rebates from manufacturers of
infant formula whose products are used in the program.   

          Abbott
expects debate to continue during 2012 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services.
Abbott believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases
for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceutical, nutrition, diagnostic, and medical device industries, or require
additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

          Abbott
is a party to a consent decree entered in 1999 that requires Abbott to ensure its diagnostics manufacturing processes in Lake County, Illinois conform to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's (FDA) Quality System Regulation and restricts the sale in the United States of certain products in the Diagnostic Products segment. In 2003, the FDA concluded that those operations
were in substantial conformity with the Quality System Regulation.   

    INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS     

          Abbott markets products worldwide through affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of this
report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are
manufactured and marketed to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including
price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

    INTERNET INFORMATION     

          Copies of Abbott's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ) as soon as reasonably practicable after Abbott electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

          Abbott's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of Abbott's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on Abbott's investor relations website (   www.abbottinvestor.com   ).   

  9  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

          In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any
of Abbott's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott's actual results. Abbott's business,
financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.   

    Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to
incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.     

          Abbott may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some
of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected
benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than
originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities.
Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for
impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

    The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott's future revenues and operating income.     

          Many of Abbott's businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to
Abbott's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott's intellectual property is successfully
challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott's
intellectual property rights or to the extent that countries require compulsory licensing of its intellectual property, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Abbott's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in the sections captioned, "Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses" and "Financial Review," and litigation regarding these patents is
described in the section captioned "Legal Proceedings."   

          Abbott
faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic
substitutes that may significantly reduce Abbott's sales for that product in a short amount of time. If Abbott's competitive position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a
material adverse effect on its revenues, margins, business, and results of operations.   

    Competitors' intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

          Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of   

  10  

Table of Contents   

  affected
Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

    Abbott is subject to cost-containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.     

In the United States and other countries, Abbott's businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing.
Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned "Regulation." To the extent these cost containment efforts are
not offset by greater patient access to healthcare or other factors, Abbott's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.   

    Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.     

          Abbott's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and numerous international,
supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be
granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new
indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and in substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once clearance or approval has been obtained for a
product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports
and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Many of Abbott's facilities and procedures and those of Abbott's suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by
the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning
letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott's products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to
Abbott's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Abbott's facilities while Abbott or Abbott's
suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these
events could disrupt Abbott's business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues, profitability and financial condition.   

    Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its
operations in the future.     

          Abbott's industry is also subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care
Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and
regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales
or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott's business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues,
profitability, and financial condition.   

  11  

Table of Contents   

Changes in the health care regulatory environment may adversely affect Abbott's business.     

          A number of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 require further rulemaking action by governmental agencies to implement. The laws change access to health care products and services and create new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device
industries. Future rulemaking could increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, or require additional reporting and disclosure. Abbott cannot
predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking.   

    Abbott's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott's revenue and profitability
to decline.     

          To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial
efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A high rate of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing
substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested.   

Promising
new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical
outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or
infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott's existing products, they may be quickly
rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things,
entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched,
whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new
indications for existing products may cause Abbott's products to become obsolete, causing Abbott's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

    The proposed separation of Abbott into two publicly-traded companies may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, and may not achieve the
intended benefits.     

          Unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax, regulatory and works council approvals or clearances,
could delay or prevent the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. Expenses incurred to accomplish
the proposed separation may be significantly higher than Abbott currently anticipates. Following the proposed separation, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies
may not be equal to or greater than what the value of Abbott's common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred.   

    New products and technological advances by Abbott's competitors may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

Abbott's products face intense competition from its competitors' products. Competitors' products may be safer, more effective, more
effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott's products. Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of
competitors' products.   

  12  

Table of Contents   

    The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products,
Abbott's business could suffer.     

          The manufacture of many of Abbott's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters,
and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may
have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause,
similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the
extent Abbott or one of its suppliers
experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

    Significant safety issues could arise for Abbott's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and financial condition.     

Health care products typically receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration.
Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety
issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product's label or narrow its approved
intended use, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety issues arise with an Abbott product, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory
authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of Abbott's products.   

In
addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott
promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott's business and reputation and on Abbott's ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in
market share for the products, lower income or exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are generally self-insured. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect
on Abbott's profitability and financial condition.   

    Further deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain European countries may negatively affect Abbott's results of operations.     

          If economic conditions in certain European countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain, continue to worsen, the time it
takes to collect outstanding trade receivables may increase. Financial instability and fiscal deficits in these countries may result in additional austerity measures to reduce costs, including health
care. At the same time, ongoing sovereign debt issues, including the impact of recent credit downgrades, could increase Abbott's collection risk given that a significant amount of Abbott's receivables
in these countries are with governmental health care systems.   

  13  

Table of Contents   

    The international nature of Abbott's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.     

Abbott's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 60 percent of Abbott's net sales. The risks associated with Abbott's operations outside the United States include:  

changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;   
           multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict Abbott's ability to manufacture,
market, and sell its products;   
           differing local product preferences and product requirements;   
           trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   
           difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations;   
           differing labor regulations;   
           potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;    
           political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues;   
           price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization,
and other governmental action;   
           inflation, recession and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and    
           compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property.    

These
risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and profitability.   

    Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott's future profitability and financial condition.     

Many other factors can affect Abbott's profitability and its financial condition,
including:  

Differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount.   
           Changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements,
product marketing application standards, and environmental laws in domestic or foreign jurisdictions.   
           Changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of Abbott's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by Abbott or Abbott's employee benefit trusts.   
           Changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to Abbott or Abbott's
employee benefit trusts.   
           Changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks in the
U.S. and other parts of the world, the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of
insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.    
 
  14  

Table of Contents   

Changes in Abbott's business units and investments and changes in the relative and absolute contribution of each to
earnings and cash flow resulting from evolving business strategies, changing product mix, changes in tax laws or tax rates both in the U.S. and abroad and opportunities existing now or in the future.    
           Changes in the buying patterns of a major distributor, retailer, or wholesale customer resulting from buyer purchasing
decisions, pricing, seasonality, or other factors, or other problems with licensors, suppliers, distributors, and business partners.   
           Difficulties related to Abbott's information technology systems, any of which could adversely affect business operations,
including any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, loss of data privacy, or interruption of these systems.   
           Changes in credit markets impacting Abbott's ability to obtain financing for its business operations.    
           Legal difficulties, any of which could preclude or delay commercialization of products or adversely affect profitability,
including claims asserting statutory or regulatory violations, adverse litigation decisions, and issues regarding compliance with any governmental consent decree or agreements.    
 
    CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS     

          This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates,
and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "forecasts," variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify
these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to
differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a
forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to
forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.    

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

None.   

  15  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

          Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's
principal plants, as of December 31, 2011, are listed below.   

Location    
     
   Segments of Products Produced    

Abbott Park, Illinois  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products  

Alcobendas, Spain  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Altavista, Virginia  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Anasco, Puerto Rico*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Baddi, India  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical, Proprietary Pharmaceutical, Diagnostic and Vascular Products  

Branch Beringen, Switzerland*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Brockville, Canada  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical and Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Casa Grande, Arizona  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Chatillon, France  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Clonmel, Ireland  
     
  Vascular Products  

Columbus, Ohio  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cootehill, Ireland  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Cork, Ireland  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Des Plaines, Illinois  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Donegal, Ireland  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Fairfield, California*  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Granada, Spain  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Hangzhou, China  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Irving, Texas  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Karachi, Pakistan  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Katsuyama, Japan  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Longford, Ireland  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Ludwigshafen, Germany  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical and Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Milpitas, California*  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Murrieta, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Neustadt, Germany  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Olst, the Netherlands  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada*  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Princeton, New Jersey  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Redwood City, California*  
     
  Vascular Products  

Santa Clara, California  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Singapore  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Sligo, Ireland  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical, Nutritional and Diagnostic Products  

Sturgis, Michigan  
     
  Nutritional Products  

Temecula, California  
     
  Vascular Products  

Tlalpan, Mexico  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Uppsala, Sweden  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Weesp, the Netherlands  
     
  Established Pharmaceutical Products  

Wiesbaden, Delkenheim, Germany  
     
  Diagnostic Products  

Witney, Oxon, England  
     
  Non-Reportable  

Worcester, Massachusetts  
     
  Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products  

Zwolle, the Netherlands  
     
  Nutritional Products  

*    Leased
property    

16  

Table of Contents   

          In addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in seven other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and in five
other countries outside the United States. Abbott's facilities are deemed suitable and provide adequate productive capacity.   

          In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns nine distribution centers. Outside the United States, Abbott owns seven distribution centers. Abbott also has
twenty-two United States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Alameda, California; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Carlsbad, California; Columbus, Ohio (two
locations); Des Plaines, Illinois; Fairfield, California; Hollywood, Florida; Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Menlo Park, California; Milpitas, California; Mountain View, California; North
Chicago, Illinois; Princeton, New Jersey; Redwood City, California; Santa Ana, California; Santa Clara, California; South Irvine, California; Temecula, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts.
Outside the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in Canada, England, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.   

Except
as noted, the corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining manufacturing plants
and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.    

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Abbott is involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations, including (as of January 31, 2012, except where
noted below) those described below. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims, proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their
ultimate resolution should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, except where noted below.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott in which New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. assert that adalimumab (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Humira )
infringes a patent co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to Centocor. In June 2009, a jury found that Abbott had willfully infringed the patent and awarded NYU and Centocor
approximately $1.67 billion in past compensatory damages. In December 2009, the district court issued a final judgment and awarded the plaintiffs an additional $175 million in
prejudgment interest. Abbott appealed the district court's final judgment. In February 2011, the Federal Circuit reversed the district court's final judgment and found Centocor's patent invalid.
Centocor, now known as Janssen Biotech, Inc., filed a petition for review with the United States Supreme Court in November 2011. Abbott is confident in the merits of its case and believes that
it will prevail.   

          Several
cases, brought as purported class actions or representative actions on behalf of individuals or entities, are pending against Abbott that allege generally that Abbott and
numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid and by private payors. These cases,
brought by private plaintiffs, state Attorneys General, and other state government entities, generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The federal court cases were
consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re:
Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL 1456   . Two of the remaining consolidated cases,    State of
Mississippi   , filed in July 2009 on behalf of its state health plan, and a class action case of Medicare Part B consumers and third party payors and other consumers,
filed in June 2003, were settled in June 2011. MDL 1456 now includes only one state Attorney General suit filed in August 2006 on behalf of the State of South Carolina. In addition, several cases are
pending against Abbott in state courts:    Commonwealth of Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;     State of Wisconsin   , filed in June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;    State of
Illinois   , filed   

  17  

Table of Contents   

  in
February 2005 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois;    State of South Carolina    (on behalf of its state health plan), filed in August 2006 in
the Court of Common Pleas, Fifth Judicial Circuit of Richland County, South Carolina;    State of Alaska   , filed in October 2006 in the Superior Court for
the Third Judicial District in Anchorage, Alaska;    State of Idaho   , filed in January 2007 in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District in Ada
County, Idaho;    State of Utah   , filed in November 2007 in the Third Judicial District in Salt Lake County, Utah;    State of
Louisiana   , filed in October 2010 in the Nineteenth Judicial District, Parish of Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In October 2011, Abbott settled the case brought by the State of
Oklahoma, filed in September 2010 in the District Court of Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma.   

Several
lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010) et al. have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re AndroGel Antitrust
Litigation   , MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs and the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), generally allege Solvay's 2006 patent litigation involving
AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement agreement and related agreements with three generic companies violate federal and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection
and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. MDL 2084 includes: (a) 3 individual plaintiff lawsuits:     Supervalu, Inc. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals,
 Inc. et al   ., was filed in April 2010 in the Northern District of Georgia; and
   Rite Aid Corp. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   . and    Walgreen Co. et al. v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., both of which were filed in February 2009 in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania; (b) 7
purported class actions:    Meijer, Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   .,    Rochester Drug
Co-Operative, Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., and    Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co., Inc. et al.
v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., all of which were filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia;     Fraternal Order of Police v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in September 2009 in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Georgia;    Jabo's Pharmacy, Inc. v. Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in October 2009 in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee;    LeGrand v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in September 2010 in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia; and    Health Net, Inc. v. Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc   ., filed in February 2011
in the Northern District of Georgia; and (c) a lawsuit brought by the FTC,    Federal Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et
al   ., filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. In February 2010, Solvay's motion to dismiss the cases was partially granted
and all of the FTC's claims and all of the plaintiffs' claims except those alleging sham litigation were dismissed. In June 2010, the FTC appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Eleventh Circuit, and this appeal is pending. In February 2010, two cases,    Scurto et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in
March 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, and    United Food   Com. Workers Unions   Employ. Midwest Health Benefits Fund et al.
v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, were dismissed. One class action lawsuit,     Stephen L. LaFrance
Pharmacy. Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in March 2009 in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey, was dismissed in June 2011.   

          A
case is pending against Abbott under the name    Myla Nauman, Jane Roller and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and
Hospira, Inc.    in which former Abbott employees alleged that (i) their transfer to Hospira, Inc., as part of Abbott's spin-off of Hospira,
adversely affected their employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and (ii) Abbott's conduct in connection with their transfer breached a fiduciary duty to
plaintiffs involving employee benefits. The plaintiffs generally sought reinstatement as Abbott employees, or reinstatement as participants in Abbott's employee benefit plans, and an award of the
employee benefits they have allegedly lost. In April 2010, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois entered judgment in favor of Abbott on all counts. In February 2012,
the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit upheld the district court's judgment.   

  18  

Table of Contents   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for Maryland, is investigating the sales and marketing practices of Abbott for Micardis , a drug
co-promoted for (until March 31, 2006) and manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these practices resulted in any violations of
civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. The
United States Attorney's office for the District of Massachusetts is returning all documents produced by Abbott and Abbott considers the investigation closed.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, is investigating Abbott's sales and marketing activities for Depakote.
The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug Cosmetic Act, and the
Anti-Kickback
Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the outcome of this investigation, its ultimate resolution
is expected to be material to cash flows in a given year. Eight state Attorneys General Offices (Florida, Illinois, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas) have formed a
committee on behalf of themselves and other State Attorneys General to investigate Abbott's sales and marketing activities for Depakote to determine whether any of these activities violated various
state laws, including state consumer fraud/protection statutes.   

          The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney's offices for the District of Massachusetts and the Eastern District of Tennessee, and the Texas State
Attorney General are investigating the sales and marketing activities of Abbott's biliary stent products. Investigations are also ongoing relating to the sales and marketing activities for Abbott's
carotid and coronary stents and stent related products by the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Tennessee, as previously mentioned, and the United States Attorney's Office
for the District of Maryland. The government is seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food and Drug
Cosmetic Act, and the Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties.   

          Eight
shareholder derivative lawsuits are pending in federal and state court in Illinois against certain of Abbott's current and former directors and members of senior management. The
lawsuits allege a breach of fiduciary duty in relation to certain business practices regarding the sales and marketing of Depakote. In each case, the plaintiffs request damages nominally on behalf of
Abbott, attorneys' fees, and other forms of relief. Six consolidated lawsuits are pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois:    Chester
County Employees' Retirement Fund   ,    Warren Pinchuck and Roy Sapir, and Jacksonville Police   Fire Pension Fund,    all filed
in November 2011;    Louisiana Municipal Police Employees' Retirement System and Pipefitters Local Union 537 Pension Fund   , both filed in December 2011; and     Public School Retirement
System of the School District of Kansas City, Missouri   , filed in January 2012. Two lawsuits are pending in the Circuit Court
for the Nineteenth Judicial Circuit, Lake County, Illinois:    Patricia Goodman   , filed in November 2011, and    William
Bojan   , filed in December 2011.   

          In
January 2008, Cordis Corporation and Wyeth filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V stent infringes three
patents and seeking an injunction, damages, and a determination of willful infringement. In January 2012, the court issued an order invalidating the plaintiff's patents and dismissing the case against
Abbott. In September 2009, Wyeth, Cordis Corporation, and Cordis LLC filed suit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the Xience V (and
later the Xience Prime) stent infringes an additional patent, and in August 2010 the plaintiffs amended their lawsuit to add a second related patent to this case. The plaintiffs in this case seek an
injunction and damages. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in this case.   

  19  

Table of Contents   

          In
December 2008, Medinol Limited (Medinol) sued Abbott in the High Court of Ireland, the District Court of The Hague, the Netherlands, and the Regional Court in Dusseldorf, Germany
asserting that Abbott's Vision and Xience V stents infringe one of Medinol's European stent design patents. Medinol has since accused Abbott's Multi-Link 8 and Xience Prime stents of
infringement. In Germany, Medinol further asserts that Abbott's Vision, Xience V, Penta, Xience Prime, Multi-Link 8, and Zeta stents infringe two Medinol German stent design patents and
one Medinol German stent design utility model. Medinol seeks damages and injunctions in Ireland and The Netherlands and seeks damages in Germany. Abbott initiated an action in the German Federal
Patent Court seeking a declaration that Medinol's patents are invalid. Abbott also initiated an action in the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom asserting that Abbott's stents do not infringe
Medinol's European patent and two other Medinol patents, which were previously revoked at the European Patent Office (EPO), and seeking a declaration that all three Medinol patents are invalid. In
Ireland, Abbott asserts that Medinol's European patent is invalid and not infringed. During 2011, the High Court of Ireland found that the asserted patent was not infringed by any of the Abbott stents
and that Medinol's asserted patent is invalid. In December 2009, the Dutch court found that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's European patent but did not rule on the patent's validity. Medinol
has appealed the Dutch court's finding that Abbott's stents do not infringe Medinol's patent. In March 2010, the Dusseldorf court, which does not assess the validity of patents, found that Abbott's
stents do not infringe Medinol's European patent, but that they do infringe two of Medinol's German stent design patents. Medinol has appealed the non-infringement decision and Abbott has
appealed the infringement decisions. In June 2011, Medinol asserted a related patent against Abbott in the Dusseldorf court seeking the same remedies. In November and December 2010, the German Federal
Patent Court held two invalidity hearings on the three patents being asserted by Medinol in Germany. In January 2011, the German Federal Patent Court found all three Medinol patents invalid. However,
after allowing Medinol to modify the claims for one of its German patents, the court concluded that the modified claims of that patent were valid. In October 2010, the United Kingdom court found that
Abbott's products do not infringe any of the three Medinol patents and that one of the two revoked patents previously revoked at the EPO is invalid. Although both parties have appealed aspects of this
decision, the invalidity finding became final in the United Kingdom when Medinol withdrew its appeal of the EPO's revocation decision. Abbott denies all substantive allegations in each case.   

Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibrate tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark TriCor ). In a case filed in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey in September 2011, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratories Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), allege infringement of three patents and seek injunctive
relief against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan, Inc. (Mylan). In a second case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in December 2011, Abbott and
Fournier allege infringement of the same patents and seek injunctive relief against Wockhardt, Ltd. and Wockhardt USA, LLC (Wockhardt). In related cases where Abbott is involved as a
result of its acquisition of Fournier Laboratoires Ireland Ltd. (Fournier Ireland), Abbott is seeking to enforce additional rights relating to fenofibrate tablets. In a case filed in the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey in September 2011, Abbott's subsidiary, Fournier Ireland, and joint patent owner, EDT Pharma Holdings Ltd. (EDT Pharma), allege infringement
of two jointly-owned patents and seek injunctive relief against Mylan.
EDT Pharma subsequently transferred its rights in the patents at issue to Alkermes Pharma, Ireland Ltd. (Alkermes). In a second case filed in the United States District Court for the District
of New Jersey in December 2011, Alkermes and Fournier Ireland allege infringement of the same patents and seek injunctive relief against Wockhardt.   

Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir/lopinavir tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Kaletra ). In cases filed in the United States
District Courts for the Northern District of Illinois and for the District of Delaware in March 2009, Abbott alleges that Matrix Laboratories, Inc., Matrix Laboratories, Ltd., and
Mylan, Inc.'s proposed generic products infringe Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. The case in Delaware was dismissed in April 2009. Upon Matrix's motion   

  20  

Table of Contents   

  in
November 2009, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois granted a five-year stay of the litigation unless good cause to lift the stay is shown.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to niacin extended release tablets (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark Niaspan ). In February 2010, Abbott filed
a case in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited's and Sun Pharma Global FZE's generic product infringes Abbott's patents and
seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a second case filed in June 2010 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, Abbott alleges Sandoz, Inc.'s proposed generic
product infringes Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a third case filed in January 2012 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, Abbott alleges
Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes Abbott's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief.   

          Abbott
is seeking to enforce certain patent rights that cover the use of fully human anti-TNF alpha antibodies with methotrexate to treat rheumatoid arthritis. In a case
filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in May 2009, Abbott alleges Centocor Inc.'s product Simponi  infringes Abbott's patents and seeks damages
and injunctive relief. In November 2011, the case was stayed while the parties arbitrate issues related to Centocor's license defenses.   

Abbott
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to testosterone gel product (a drug Abbott sells under the trademark AndroGel ). In a case filed in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware in April 2011, Abbott alleged that Teva Pharmaceuticals USA's (Teva) proposed generic product infringes Abbott's patent and sought declaratory and
injunctive relief. Teva asserted various counterclaims, including monopolization claims. In December 2011, the parties reached a confidential settlement and this case was dismissed in January 2012.   

ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES            

          Not applicable.   

  21  

Table of Contents    

    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT     

          Executive officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed
by the chairman of the board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual shareholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board
meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any time by the
board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. Any officer appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed
by the chairman whenever, in the chairman's judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott. A vacancy in any office appointed by the chairman of the board may be filled by the chairman.   

          Abbott's
executive officers, their ages as of February 21, 2012, and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are listed below. The executive officers' principal
occupations and employment for the past five years and the year of appointment to the earliest reported office are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott. There are no family
relationships between any corporate officers or directors.   

    Miles D. White, 56     

1999
to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Director.   

Elected
Corporate Officer   1993.   

Richard W. Ashley, 68     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Corporate Development.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2004.   

John M. Capek, 50     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, Medical Devices.   

2006
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Abbott Vascular.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Thomas C. Freyman, 57     

2004
to present   Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1991.   

Richard A. Gonzalez, 58     

2010
to present   Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2009
to 2011   President, Abbott Ventures Inc.   

  2007
to 2009   Retired.   

  2006
to 2007   President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2010 (Mr. Gonzalez was also an Abbott corporate officer from 1995 until he retired in 2007).   

John C. Landgraf, 59     

2011
to present   Executive Vice President, Nutritional Products.   

22  

Table of Contents   

2008
to 2010   Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Manufacturing and Supply.   

  2004
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Supply.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2000.   

Edward L. Michael, 55     

2008
to present   Executive Vice President, Diagnostic Products.   

2007
to 2008   Executive Vice President, Diagnostics.   

  2007  
Senior Vice President, Medical Products.   

  2003
to 2007   Vice President and President, Molecular Diagnostics.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1997.   

Laura J. Schumacher, 48     

2007
to present   Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.   

  2005
to 2007   Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2003.   

Carlos Alban, 49     

2011
to present   Senior Vice President, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Global Commercial Operations.   

  2009
to 2011   Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals.   

2008
to 2009   Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Western Europe and Canada.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Western Europe and Canada.   

  2006
to 2007   Vice President, Pharmaceutical European Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2006.   

Brian J. Blaser, 47     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

2008
to 2010   Vice President, Diagnostics, Operations.   

  2008  
Divisional Vice President, Global Operations.   

  2007
to 2008   Divisional Vice President, Manufacturing.   

  2004
to 2007   Divisional Vice President, Strategic Operations Improvement.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2008.   

A. David Forrest, 50     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, International Nutrition.   

  2007
to 2010   Divisional Vice President, Europe and Canada.   

  2004
to 2007   General Manager, United Kingdom.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2010.   

23  

Table of Contents   

    Stephen R. Fussell, 54     

2005
to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Robert B. Hance, 52     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Vascular.   

  2006
to 2008   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care Operations.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

Heather L. Mason, 51     

2008
to present   Senior Vice President, Diabetes Care.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Latin America Pharmaceuticals.   

2005
to 2007   Vice President, International Marketing.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2001.   

James V. Mazzo, 54     

2009
to present   Senior Vice President, Abbott Medical Optics.   

  2006
to 2009   Chairman of the Board of Directors, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (a global leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices for the
eye).   

2004
to 2009   Chief Executive Officer, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.   

  2004
to 2007   President, Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Michael J. Warmuth, 49     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, Established Products, Pharmaceutical Products Group.   

  2008
to 2010   Senior Vice President, Diagnostics.   

2008  
Vice President, Hematology Diagnostics.   

  2007
to 2008   Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  2006
to 2007   Divisional Vice President, Global Engineering Services.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2007.   

J. Scott White, 43     

2010
to present   Senior Vice President, U.S. Nutrition.   

2007
to 2009   Division Vice President and Regional Director for Latin America, Abbott Nutrition International.   

  2005
to 2007   Division Vice President and General Manager for Pediatric Nutrition, U.S. Nutrition.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   2009.   

Greg W. Linder, 55     

2001
to present   Vice President and Controller.   

  Elected
Corporate Officer   1999.   

24  

Table of Contents    

    PART II     

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

    Principal Market     

          The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange
and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.   

Shareholders     

          There were 62,939 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of December 31, 2011.   

    Dividends     

          Quarterly dividends of $.48 and $.44 per share were declared on common shares in 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

Abbott
Laboratories is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22F). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  25  

Table of Contents   

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    These
shares represent:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to Abbott to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   92,682 in
October; 90,491 in November; and 374,155 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Abbott Laboratories, Limited Employee Stock Purchase
Plan   0 in October; 23,000 in November; and 68,300 in December.    

These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to Abbott to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units.   

2.    On
October 13, 2008, Abbott announced that its board of directors approved the purchase of up to $5 billion of its common shares, from time to
time.    

26  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

27  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

    Financial Review     

          Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable
arrangements. Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract or by a pharmacy benefit manager most impact which products
are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary
products are prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Sales in international markets are approximately 60 percent of consolidated
net sales.   

          In
2011, Abbott announced a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies, one in diversified medical products and the other in research-based pharmaceuticals. To accomplish the
separation, Abbott plans to create a new company for its research-based pharmaceuticals business which will include Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. The transaction is expected to
take the form of a tax-free distribution to Abbott shareholders of the stock of the newly created research-based pharmaceutical company and is expected to be completed by the end of 2012.
Subsequent to the separation, the historical results of the research-based pharmaceuticals business will be presented as discontinued operations.   

          Continued
robust growth of    HUMIRA    in a broad range of indications, the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay
Pharmaceuticals) and Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, continued growth and market penetration by the    Xience    drug eluting
stent franchise, the loss of patent protection for some pharmaceutical products, an ongoing government investigation of Abbott's sales and marketing activities related to     Depakote   , and the challenging
economic environment in many countries around the world have impacted Abbott's sales, costs and financial position over
the last three years.   

          Pharmaceutical
research and development is focused on therapeutic areas that include immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, hepatitis C (HCV), chronic kidney disease and
women's health. During the last three years, Abbott acquired the rights to various in-process pharmaceutical research and development projects including the development of
second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators and a product for the treatment of chronic kidney disease.   

          In
2003, Abbott began the worldwide launch of    HUMIRA    for rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for five additional indications, which
increased    HUMIRA's    worldwide sales to $7.9 billion in 2011 compared to $6.5 billion in 2010, and $5.5 billion in 2009. Abbott
forecasts low double-digit growth for worldwide    HUMIRA    sales in 2012. Abbott is studying additional indications for     HUMIRA   . Substantial research and
development and selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of     HUMIRA   . Abbott expects generic competition for    TriCor    to begin in the second half of 2012. Austerity
measures implemented by several European countries reduced healthcare spending and affected pharmaceutical pricing in 2010 and 2011. The 2010 healthcare reform legislation in the U.S. resulted in
rebate changes beginning in 2010 and the payment of an annual fee beginning in
2011, which negatively affected Abbott's pharmaceutical business. The impact of the austerity measures and the U.S. healthcare reform legislation is expected to continue.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay Pharmaceuticals which provided Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expanded Abbott's presence in key
global emerging markets. The acquisition added approximately $3.1 billion to Abbott's 2010 total sales, primarily outside the U.S. In September 2010, Abbott completed the acquisition of
Piramal's Healthcare Solutions business, propelling Abbott to market leadership in the Indian pharmaceutical market and further accelerating the company's growth in emerging markets. In 2011 and 2010,
Abbott recorded approximately $345 million and $710 million, respectively, of expense related to the integration of the Solvay business and   

  28  

Table of Contents   

  a
restructuring plan announced in September 2010 to streamline operations, improve efficiencies and reduce costs primarily in certain Solvay sites and functions. The restructuring plan is further
described below. In 2011, Abbott recorded a litigation charge of $1.5 billion related to ongoing settlement discussions in the U.S. government's investigation related to     Depakote   .   

In
Abbott's worldwide nutritional products business, favorable economic development in emerging markets and an aging population in developed markets have provided significant
opportunities to leverage strong nutritional brands and introduce innovative products.   

          In
the fourth quarter of 2008, Abbott's    Xience V    product became the market-leading drug eluting stent in the U.S. In June 2009,     Xience PRIME   , Abbott's next
generation drug eluting stent, received CE Mark approval and was launched in Europe in August 2009. Abbott received approval
to market    Xience V    in Japan in January 2010 and    Xience V    became the market-leading drug eluting stent in
Japan in the second quarter of 2010. With the U.S. launches of    Xience nano    and    Xience PRIME    in May and
November 2011, respectively, and continued strong performance in Japan, China, and other international markets, Xience, which includes    Xience V   ,     PRIME    and
   nano   , ended 2011 as the market-leading drug eluting stent globally. At the same time the third
party distributor of the    Promus    product began transitioning away from the product and that distribution agreement will end in 2012.   

In
2010, the U.S. government passed health care reform legislation which included an increase in Medicaid rebate rates and the extension of the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid
managed care organizations beginning in 2010. The legislation also imposed annual fees which pharmaceutical manufacturers began paying in 2011 and medical device companies will begin paying in 2013,
as well as additional rebates related to the Medicare Part D "donut hole" beginning in 2011. In addition to a 2010 one-time charge of approximately $60 million to reduce
deferred tax assets associated with retiree health care liabilities related to the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy, the legislation's
negative impact on Abbott's performance grew from more than $200 million in 2010 to approximately $400 million in 2011 and is expected to remain at approximately $400 million in
2012.   

          Abbott's
short- and long-term debt totaled $15.4 billion at December 31, 2011, largely incurred to finance acquisitions. Operating cash flows in excess of
capital expenditures and cash dividends have partially funded acquisitions over the last three years. At December 31, 2011, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard and
Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service.   

          In
2012, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the proprietary pharmaceutical business, Abbott will continue maximizing the market potential for     HUMIRA    and other products, including    AndroGel   , as well as continuing to build its global presence.
Pharmaceutical research and development efforts will continue to focus a significant portion of expenditures on compounds for immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, HCV, chronic kidney
disease and women's health. Current research and development projects are described in the Research and Development Programs section.   

          In
the established pharmaceutical business which includes international sales of branded generic products, Abbott will continue to focus on obtaining additional product approvals across
numerous countries and expanding its presence in emerging markets. In the vascular business, Abbott will continue to focus on marketing products in the     Xience    franchise, obtaining regulatory review of
the    MitraClip    device in the U.S., and increasing
international    MitraClip    sales as well as further clinical development of    ABSORB   , its bioresorbable
vascular scaffold (BVS) device and a further roll-out of    ABSORB    in CE Mark countries. In Abbott's other segments, Abbott will focus on
developing or acquiring differentiated technologies in higher growth segments of those markets.   

    Critical Accounting Policies     

Sales Rebates       Approximately 54 percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues are subject to various forms of rebates and
allowances that Abbott records as reductions of revenues at the time of sale.   

  29  

Table of Contents   

  Most
of these rebates and allowances are in the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment and the Nutritional Products segment. Abbott provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies,
state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans, state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using
contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government
agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be
paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to 24 months after sale. Abbott
regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2011, 2010
and 2009 amounted to approximately $5.5 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, or 22.2 percent, 23.1 percent and 23.8 percent, respectively,
based on gross sales of approximately $24.8 billion, $21.1 billion and $18.4 billion, respectively, subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the
percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by approximately $248 million in 2011. Abbott considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably
likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $409 million, $415 million and $414 million
for cash discounts in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $490 million, $537 million and $456 million for returns in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash discounts are known
within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other
sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.   

          Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that
measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the
supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In
addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably
determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data
available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At December 31, 2011, Abbott had the exclusive WIC business in 23 states.   

          In
the domestic proprietary pharmaceutical business, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare Rebates, Pharmacy Benefit Manager Rebates and
Wholesaler Chargebacks. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, management uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel
and the rebate claims processing lag time. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically reported by wholesalers and third
party market data purchased by Abbott. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are
used to track sales by product by customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. Abbott's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and
Abbott believes they are reliable.   

  30  

Table of Contents   

          The
following table is an analysis of the four largest rebate accruals, which comprise approximately 68 percent of the consolidated rebate provisions charged against revenues in
2011. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. (   dollars in millions   )   

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and
where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency programs, the
calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.   

Income Taxes       Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are
subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same
income in more than one country. Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the
measurement of tax contingencies, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated
as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S.,
Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2008 are settled except for one item, and the income tax returns for years after 2008 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings
reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries.   

            Pension and Post-Employment Benefits       Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of
its employees. Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most
significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets. The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on
high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the
cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for
decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Low asset returns due to poor market conditions and low interest rates have significantly
increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2011, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $3.8 billion and $237 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining
service   

  31  

Table of Contents   

  attribution
periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected
long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact
of a one-percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point.   

            Valuation of Intangible Assets       Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair
value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations
are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal
values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions
and calculations for acquisitions of significant intangibles. Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the
undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash
flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an
impairment occurs. At December 31, 2011, goodwill and intangibles amounted to $15.7 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets
amounted to $1.6 billion in 2011. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2011, 2010 or 2009. In 2011, Abbott recorded impairment charges of $174 million for certain research and
development assets due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for the projects.   

            Litigation       Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 450,
"Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional
information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes
known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate
amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately
$1.59 billion to $1.63 billion for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures. Reserves of approximately $1.6 billion have been recorded at December 31, 2011 for
these proceedings and exposures. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies."   

  32  

Table of Contents    

Results of Operations     

    Sales     

          The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last three years:   

In
2011 and 2010, Total Net, Total U.S., Total International, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment and Established Pharmaceutical Products segment sales reflect the acquisition of
Solvay's pharmaceuticals business on February 15, 2010 and unit growth, while the relatively weaker U.S. dollar favorably impacted international sales across all segments. Total Net, Total
International and Established   

  33  

Table of Contents   

  Pharmaceutical
Products segment sales growth in 2011 also reflects the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solution business in September 2010. Total Net Sales growth in 2009
reflects unit growth and the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. on February 25, 2009, partially offset by the negative effect of the relatively stronger U.S. dollar. Total Net,
Total U.S. and Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment sales in 2009 also reflect decreased sales of    Depakote    due to generic competition. Excluding
U.S.    Depakote    sales, Total Net sales increased 7.7 percent, Total U.S. sales increased 7.6 percent and Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products
segment sales increased 7.8 percent from 2008 to 2009.   

          A
comparison of significant product and product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers.   

n/m  
Percent change is not meaningful   

The
increases in U.S. Proprietary product sales in 2011 and 2010 are primarily due to increased sales of    HUMIRA    and the acquisition of
Solvay Pharmaceuticals in February 2010, partially offset by decreased   

  34  

Table of Contents   

  sales
of    Depakote    and    Zemplar   . U.S. Proprietary product sales in 2009 were impacted by decreased sales
of    Depakote    due to generic competition, partially offset by increased sales of    HUMIRA    and the addition
of    Lupron    sales from the conclusion of the TAP joint venture in April 2008. U.S. sales of    Depakote    were
$148 million, $161 million and $331 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Worldwide sales of    Kaletra    in all three years
were negatively affected by market competition. International Proprietary product sales in all three years were favorably impacted by increased sales of     HUMIRA   . The increases in Established
Pharmaceutical sales in 2011 and 2010 are primarily due to the acquisitions of Solvay Pharmaceuticals and Piramal
and growth in emerging markets. U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals sales in 2011 and 2010 were affected by the voluntary recall of certain Similac-brand powder infant formulas in September 2010 and the
subsequent recovery in market share in 2011. International Pediatric and Adult Nutritionals sales increases over the three years were due primarily to volume growth in developing countries.
International Proprietary Pharmaceuticals, International Adult Nutritionals and Immunochemistry sales in 2011 and 2010 were positively impacted by the effect of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar and
were negatively impacted in 2009 by the effect of the relatively stronger U.S. dollar. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related
gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Related net sales were approximately
$58 million and $120 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, while there were no significant sales in 2011.   

The
expiration of licenses, patent protection and generic competition can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. There are currently no significant patent or license
expirations in the next three years. Under a license agreement for    TriCor    145 mg, generic competition is not expected before July 2012. Under a license
agreement for    Trilipix    45 mg and 135 mg, generic competition may begin in January 2014 except that under certain circumstances the license may commence
as early as July 2013. Under an agreement relating to Abbott's niacin products and acquired with the Kos Pharmaceuticals acquisition,    Niaspan    may become
subject to generic competition in September 2013.    AndroGel    1% sales are expected to be impacted by generic competition in 2015.   

    Operating Earnings     

          Gross profit margins were 60.0 percent of net sales in 2011, 58.3 percent in 2010 and 57.1 percent in 2009. The
increase in the gross profit margin in 2011 was due, in part, to improved margins in the established pharmaceutical, diagnostics and diabetes businesses and was partially offset by the unfavorable
effect of exchange on the profit margin ratio. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2010 was due, in part, to improved margins in the established pharmaceutical, vascular, diabetes, diagnostics
and nutritional businesses and the favorable effect of exchange on the gross profit margin ratio. The decrease in the gross profit margin in 2009 was due, in part, to the negative impact from lower
sales of    Depakote    and the unfavorable effect of exchange on the gross profit margin ratio; partially offset by improved margins in the vascular and
diagnostics businesses.   

          In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional, Proprietary Pharmaceutical and
Established Pharmaceutical Products segments.   

          Research
and development expense was $4.129 billion in 2011, $3.724 billion in 2010 and $2.744 billion in 2009 and represented increases of 10.9 percent in
2011, 35.7 percent in 2010 and 2.0 percent in 2009. Excluding charges related to the Solvay restructurings announced in September 2010, research and development expense increased
29.4 percent in 2010 and 6.2 percent in 2011. The 2010 increase, exclusive of the effects of the restructuring charges, reflects the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business in
February 2010 and Facet Biotech in April 2010. The increase in 2009 reflects the favorable effect of exchange rates which reduced research and development expense in 2009. Excluding   

  35  

Table of Contents   

  the
effect of exchange, research and development expenses increased 3.4 percent in 2009. The increases in 2011, 2010 and 2009 also reflect continued pipeline spending, including programs in
vascular devices, biologics, neuroscience, oncology and hepatitis C. The majority of research and development expenditures are concentrated on pharmaceutical products. $2.8 billion of Abbott's
2011 research and development expenses related to Abbott's pharmaceutical products, of which $2.2 billion was directly allocated to the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. In 2011,
research and development expenditures totaled $403 million for the Vascular Products segment, $325 million for the Diagnostics Products segment, $251 million for the Established
Pharmaceutical Products segment and $165 million for the Nutritional Products segment.   

          Selling,
general and administrative expenses increased 22.9 percent in 2011, increased 23.4 percent in 2010 and decreased 0.4 percent in 2009. The U.S. Department of
Justice through the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia is investigating Abbott's sales and marketing activities for    Depakote   .
In 2011, Abbott recorded a litigation charge of $1.5 billion related to ongoing settlement discussions in this investigation. Excluding the litigation charge and Solvay-related restructuring
and integration costs, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6.7 percent in 2011. Excluding charges related to Solvay restructuring and integration projects, selling, general
and administrative expenses in 2010 increased 18.2 percent. This increase, exclusive of the effects of the restructuring and integration charges, reflects the acquisitions of Solvay's
pharmaceuticals business in 2010 and Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. in 2009 and higher provisions for litigation in 2010. The 2009 decrease reflects the favorable effect of exchange rates which
was offset by expenses relating to the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. and the settlement of litigation. Excluding the effects of the charges and exchange, selling, general and
administrative expenses increased 0.9 percent in 2009. The remaining increases in selling, general and administrative expenses over the three year period were due primarily to increased selling
and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for    HUMIRA,    inflation, and in 2010, the impact of the pharmaceutical
fee imposed by U.S. healthcare reform legislation.   

    Restructurings     

          In 2011 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations
and selected domestic and international commercial and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, Abbott recorded charges of approximately
$194 million, $56 million and $114 million, respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges.
Approximately $76 million in 2011 is classified as Cost of products sold, $69 million as Research and development and $49 million as Selling, general and administrative.
Approximately $56 million in 2010 is classified as Cost of products sold and $114 million in 2009 as Selling, general and administrative. The following summarizes the activity for these
restructurings:    (dollars in millions)   

36  

Table of Contents    

          An additional $25 million, $13 million and $47 million were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, relating to these restructurings,
primarily for accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2010, Abbott management approved a restructuring plan primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business. This plan streamlines operations, improves
efficiencies and reduces costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain Abbott and Solvay commercial organizations in various countries. Under this plan, Abbott recorded charges to
Cost of products sold, Research and development and Selling, general and administrative of approximately $99 million, $152 million and $272 million, respectively. The following
summarizes the activity for this restructuring:    (dollars in millions)   

An
additional $102 million and $12 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for additional employee severance and
accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2011 and 2008, Abbott management approved plans to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In
2011 a charge of $28 million was recorded in Cost of products sold. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in
millions)   

In
addition, charges of approximately $42 million, $60 million and $54 million were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, primarily for accelerated depreciation and
product transfer costs. Additional charges will be incurred through 2012 as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries
and product transition timelines.   

    Interest expense and Interest (income)     

          In 2011, interest expense decreased due to lower debt levels and interest income decreased as a result of lower rates. In 2010,
interest expense increased due primarily to increased debt levels. In 2009, interest expense decreased primarily as a result of lower interest rates, partially offset by increased debt levels related
to the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.
Interest income decreased in 2010 due to lower investment balances and decreased in 2009 due to lower interest rates.   

Change in Accounting Principle and Other (income) expense, net     

          Prior to January 1, 2011, the accounts of foreign subsidiaries were consolidated based on a fiscal year ended November 30
due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. Effective January 1, 2011, the one month lag in the consolidation of the accounts of foreign subsidiaries was eliminated and the   

  37  

Table of Contents   

  year-end
of foreign subsidiaries was changed to December 31. Abbott believes that the change in accounting principle related to the elimination of the one month reporting lag is
preferable because it will result in more contemporaneous reporting of the results of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with applicable accounting literature, a change in subsidiaries'
year-end is treated as a change in accounting principle and requires retrospective application. The cumulative effect of the change was an increase in retained earnings of
$289 million as of January 1, 2009 and a corresponding decrease in other long-term liabilities. The impact of the change was not material to the results of operations for the
previously reported annual and interim periods after January 1, 2009, and thus, those results have not been revised. A charge of $137 million was recorded to Other (income) expense, net
in 2011 to recognize the cumulative immaterial impacts to 2009 and 2010. Had the financial statements been revised, net sales, operating earnings and net earnings in 2009 would have increased by
$211 million, $36 million and $38 million, respectively, and net sales, operating earnings and net earnings in 2010 would have decreased by $21 million, $195 million
and $175 million, respectively.   

          Other
(income) expense, net, for 2011 includes $56 million of fair value adjustments and accretion in the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Solvay's
pharmaceutical business. Other (income) expense, net, for 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 million associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical
Products Inc. joint venture. The contingent liability was established at the conclusion of the joint venture as Abbott agreed to remit cash to Takeda if certain research and development events
were not achieved on the development assets retained by Takeda. In 2009, the research and development events were achieved and the contingent liability was derecognized. In addition, Other (income)
expense, net for 2009 includes a $287 million gain from the settlement reached between Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. resolving all outstanding intellectual property litigation between the
two parties and income from the recording of certain investments at fair value in connection with business acquisitions. Other (income) expense, net, for 2011, 2010 and 2009 also includes ongoing
contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture.   

    Taxes on Earnings     

          The income tax rates on earnings were 9.0 percent in 2011, 19.0 percent in 2010 and 20.1 percent in 2009. Taxes on
earnings in 2011 reflect the effect of the tax rate applied to a litigation reserve and the recognition of $580 million of tax benefits as a result of the favorable resolution of various tax
positions pertaining to prior years, which also decreased the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.3 billion. Exclusive of these discrete items, the effective rates are
lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent due primarily to the benefit of lower foreign tax rates and tax exemptions that reduced the tax rates by 22.9, 19.4, and
16.4 percentage points in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The tax rate reductions are primarily derived from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Ireland and Singapore where Abbott
benefits from a combination of favorable statutory tax rules, tax rulings, grants, and exemptions. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for a full reconciliation of the effective
tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate.   

          As
a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which were signed into law in 2010, Abbott recorded a charge of
approximately $60 million in 2010 to reduce deferred tax assets associated with retiree health care liabilities related to the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy. The tax rate in 2009
was affected by a higher tax rate applied to the derecognition of a contingent liability associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture and the Medtronic
intellectual property litigation settlement.   

          In
October 2010, Puerto Rico enacted legislation that assesses a tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. This excise tax is recorded in Cost of products
sold although the tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes.   

  38  

Table of Contents   

    Research and Development Programs     

          Abbott currently has numerous pharmaceutical, medical and nutritional products in development.   

Research and Development Process      

          In the Proprietary Pharmaceuticals segment, the research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses
on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development
which generally includes the following phases:  

Phase I   involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers to assess
tolerability and potential dosing.   
           Phase II   tests the molecule's efficacy against the disease in a small group of patients.    
           Phase III   tests a molecule that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a
significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.    

The
clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other
submission for regulatory approval to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar government agencies outside the U.S. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for
obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.   

          The
research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 - 12 years and can be even longer. There is a significant
amount of uncertainty inherent in the research and development of new pharmaceutical products and there is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch
a new drug or indication.   

          In
addition to the development of new products and new formulations, proprietary pharmaceutical research and development projects also may include Phase IV trials, sometimes
called
post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved
drug.   

          In
the Established Pharmaceuticals segment, the research and development process focuses on the geographic expansion and continuous improvement of the segment's existing products to
provide Improved Therapeutic Benefits (ITBs) to patients and customers. As Established Pharmaceuticals does not actively pursue primary research, development usually begins with work on existing
products or after the acquisition of an advanced stage licensing opportunity.   

  Depending
upon the product, the phases of development may include:  

Drug product development   
           Phase I bioequivalence studies to compare a future Established Pharmaceutical's brand with an already marketed
compound with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient (API).   
           Phase II studies to test the efficacy of an ITB in a small group of patients.    
           Phase III studies to broaden the testing to a wider population that reflects the actual medical use.    

The
specific requirements (e.g. scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. The process may range from one year for a
bioequivalence study project to 6 or more years for complex formulations and new indications.   

  In
addition to the development of new ITBs, development projects may also include Phase IV studies similar to the post-marketing studies described above for proprietary
pharmaceuticals.   

  39  

Table of Contents   

In
the Diagnostics segment, the phases of the research and development process include:  

Discovery which focuses on identification of a product that will address a specific therapeutic area, platform, or unmet
clinical need,   
           Concept/Feasibility during which the materials and manufacturing processes are evaluated, testing may include product
characterization and analysis is performed to confirm clinical utility, and   
           Development during which extensive testing is performed to demonstrate that the product meets specified design
requirements and that the design specifications conform to user needs and intended uses.    

As
with pharmaceutical products, the regulatory requirements for diagnostic products vary across different countries and geographic regions. In the U.S., the FDA classifies diagnostic
products into classes (I, II, or III) and the classification determines the regulatory process for approval. While the Diagnostics segment has products in all three classes, the vast majority
of its products are categorized as Class I or Class II. Submission of a separate regulatory filing is not required for Class I products. Class II devices typically require
pre-market notification to the FDA through a regulatory filing known as a 510(k) submission. Most Class III products are subject to the FDA's Pre-Marketing Approval
(PMA) requirements. Other Class III products, such as those used to screen blood, require the submission and approval of a BLA.   

          In
the EU, diagnostic products are also categorized into different categories and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device Directive,
depends upon the category. Certain product categories require review and approval by an independent company, known as a Notified Body, before the manufacturer can affix a CE mark to the product to
show compliance with the Directive. Other products only require a self-certification process.   

In
the Vascular segment, the research and development process begins with research on a specific technology that is evaluated for feasibility and commercial viability. If the research
program passes that hurdle, it moves forward into development. The development process includes evaluation and selection of a product design, completion of clinical trials to test the product's safety
and efficacy, and validation of the manufacturing process to demonstrate its repeatability and ability to consistently meet pre-determined specifications.   

          Similar
to the diagnostic products discussed above, in the U.S., vascular products are classified as Class I, II, or III. Most of Abbott's vascular products are classified as
Class II devices that follow the 510(k) regulatory process or Class III devices that are subject to the PMA process.   

          In
the EU, vascular products are also categorized into different classes and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European Medical Device Directive, varies by class. Each
product must bear a CE mark to show compliance with the Directive. Some products require submission of a design dossier to the appropriate regulatory authority for review and approval prior to CE
marking of the device. For other products, the company is required to prepare a technical file which includes testing results and clinical evaluations but can self-certify its ability to
apply the CE mark to the product. Outside the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory requirements vary across different countries and regions.   

          After
approval and commercial launch of some vascular products, post-market trials may be conducted either due to a conditional requirement of the regulatory market approval
or with the objective of proving product superiority.   

          In
the Nutritional segment, the research and development process generally focuses on identifying and developing ingredients and products that address the nutritional needs of particular
populations (e.g., infants, athletes) or patients (e.g., people with diabetes). Depending upon the country and/or region, if claims regarding a product's efficacy will be made, clinical
studies typically must be conducted. Most   

  40  

Table of Contents   

  other
product development, such as a product form change from liquid to powder, generally does not necessitate clinical studies.   

In
the U.S., the FDA requires that it be notified of proposed new formulations and formulation or packaging changes related to infant formula products. Prior to the launch of an infant
formula or product packaging change, the company is required to obtain the FDA's confirmation that it has no
objections to the proposed product or packaging. For other nutrition products, notification or pre-approval from the FDA is not required unless the product includes a new food additive. In
some countries, regulatory approval may be required for certain nutritional products, including infant formula and medical nutritional products.   

Areas of Focus      

          Abbott's significant areas of therapeutic focus include the following:   

  Proprietary
Pharmaceutical Products     

          Immunology  
Projects are ongoing to identify new mechanisms with the potential to treat an array of immune-mediated diseases. Projects include early stage
work in oral DMARD therapies and a number of biologic candidates. ABT-122 and ABT-981 are both dual variable domain immunoglobulins in Phase I clinical trials with
potential to be disease modifying anti-arthritic drugs.   

          Additional
indications of    HUMIRA    have registration submissions under review, including ankylosing spondylitis in China where the
registration filing was submitted in September 2011 and pediatric Crohn's disease where the European Union (EU) registration was submitted in October 2011 and the U.S. submission is expected in
mid-2012. Global regulatory applications for ulcerative colitis were submitted in early 2011. Phase III trials are ongoing for ulcerative colitis in Japan, uveitis in the
U.S., EU and Japan, peripheral and axial spondyloarthritis in the U.S. and EU, and hidradenitis suppurativa in the U.S. and EU. Approval for juvenile idiopathic arthritis was obtained in July 2011 for
Japan.   

          Neuroscience/Pain  
Abbott is focused on the development of compounds that target receptors in the brain that help regulate neurological functions to address
conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, pain, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis (MS). These efforts include four compounds directed toward the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Abbott expects ABT-126 to start Phase IIb studies in the first half of 2012, ABT-354 to enter Phase IIa in late 2012 or early 2013, ABT-363 to
complete Phase I in late 2012, and ABT-957 to start Phase I in the first half of 2012. Daclizumab, a next-generation antibody, is in ongoing Phase III
clinical trials for relapsing remitting MS. ABT-652 is under development for the treatment of multiple pain indications with Phase IIb clinical trials expected to start in June
2012. Duopa is completing its U.S. Phase III program for Parkinson's disease and a registration is expected to be submitted in the second half of 2012.   

          Oncology  
Abbott is focused on the development of targeted treatments that inhibit tumor growth and improve response to common cancer therapies. Abbott has new
molecular entities in development for more than a dozen types of cancer including:  

ABT-888, a PARP-inhibitor, for which Phase II evaluation is ongoing for a number of
specific tumor types.   
           Elotuzumab under a collaboration agreement acquired as part of the Facet Biotech acquisition in 2010. Abbott began
Phase III development of elotuzumab for the treatment of multiple myeloma with its partner in June 2011.   
           ABT-199, a next-generation Bcl-2 inhibitor currently in Phase I development
being studied for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).    
 
  41  

Table of Contents   

          Hepatitis
C   Abbott's antiviral program is focused on developing treatments for hepatitis C (HCV) and development is ongoing for ABT-450, part of the
Enanta collaboration, polymerase inhibitor ABT-333, and ABT-267, a NS5A inhibitor.   

          Women's
Health   In 2010, Abbott entered into a collaboration agreement with Neurocrine to develop and commercialize elagolix, an oral
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, for the treatment of endometriosis-related pain and fibroids. A Phase III study in endometriosis is expected to begin
in mid-2012 and a Phase IIa study for uterine fibroids was initiated in November 2011.   

          Chronic
Kidney Disease   In 2010, Abbott entered into an agreement with Reata Pharmaceuticals for ex-U.S. rights, excluding certain Asian markets, to
bardoxolone, an investigational treatment for chronic kidney disease (CKD). A global Phase III trial was initiated in June 2011. A global Phase IIb study was initiated for atrasentan in
June 2011.   

          In
2011, new formulations of Abbott's existing pharmaceutical products were approved, including    Lupron    6-month depot in June
and 3-month depot in August in the U.S. A new strength for    Creon    was approved in the U.S. in June and     AndroGel    1.62% was approved in April in the U.S. Work
is also continuing on numerous early-stage programs, including the biologic acquired
from Pangenetics for chronic pain in late 2009, a cMet antibody for cancer in partnership with Pierre Fabre SA, and other programs across all of Abbott's therapeutic areas of focus.   

Established
Pharmaceuticals   Abbott is currently working on active ITB plans for about 20 - 30 key brands. Depending on the product, the development
activities focus on new markets, formulations, combinations, or indications.   

  Vascular  
Ongoing projects in the pipeline include:  

Xience Xpedition   , our next-generation drug-eluting
stent (DES) with enhanced deliverability and an expanded size matrix. It utilizes the    Xience PRIME    stent, everolimus and biocompatible coating
technology but incorporates new catheter technology for improved deliverability. Submission of the product for CE Mark and U.S. approval is projected to occur in 2012.    
            ABSORB,    a bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device for the treatment
of coronary artery disease that is gradually resorbed into the vessel wall. In 2011 Abbott released five-year data from its ABSORB clinical trial, which showed efficacy and safety results
consistent with the four-year data. In 2010, Abbott initiated the ABSORB EXTEND clinical trial which will enroll up to 1,000 patients with more complex coronary artery disease. In 2011
after receiving CE Mark approval for    ABSORB   , Abbott initiated a randomized, controlled clinical trial to further study the device in an expanded
population in Europe. A global trial, including the U.S. and other geographies, is planned for later in 2012.   
            MitraClip    device for the treatment of mitral
regurgitation   Abbott's    MitraClip    system which is on the market in Europe is currently under review for approval by the FDA. An
amended filing to the FDA was submitted in December 2011.   
           Coronary and endovascular core product projects, including new coronary and endovascular guide wires, and the     Absolute Pro    and
   Omnilink Elite    stent for iliac indication in the U.S., are at various stages of
development and/or undergoing regulatory approvals.    

Medical
Optics   Abbott is expanding its proprietary laser platforms into new vision correction applications, including laser refractive cataract surgery. Abbott has also developed
a new diagnostic instrument and laser treatment planning software which is designed to improve visual outcomes. This instrument and software received CE Mark in November 2011 and will be
launched in Europe in the second quarter of 2012. A PMA filing for U.S. regulatory approval is targeted for submission in the second quarter of 2012. A PMA filing for an ophthalmic viscoelastic for
the U.S. market was submitted to the FDA in February 2011 and is currently under review. Abbott is also developing new products for patients   

  42  

Table of Contents   

  undergoing
cataract surgery, including: the Synchrony intraocular lens (IOL) designed to mimic the eye's natural ability to change focus and deliver improved vision at all distances; advanced IOLs
that address astigmatism as well as presbyopia; IOL insertion systems that improve surgeon efficiency and enable implantation through smaller incision sizes; and feature enhancements to
phacoemulsification systems.   

  Molecular
Diagnostics   Numerous new molecular diagnostic products, including oncology and infectious disease assays as well as a new instrument system, are currently under
development. Abbott's companion diagnostic test for an ALK gene rearrangement test for non-small-cell lung cancer was launched in the U.S. in 2011 and is currently in clinical
trials and undergoing regulatory review in numerous other countries. In 2011, an assay to aid in the management of HCV-infected patients undergoing antiviral therapy received U.S.
regulatory approval and additional assays to detect the presence of HIV virus and CMV viral load as well as a test to detect hepatitis B drug resistance in patients received CE Mark.   

Core
Laboratory Diagnostics   Abbott is researching dozens of novel biomarkers focusing on areas such as infectious disease, oncology, cardiac and neuroscience disorders and also
has several next-generation instrument systems in development.   

  Diabetes
Care   Abbott submitted its    FreeStyle InsuLinx    blood glucose monitoring system that includes new features designed to
support the insulin-using patient for regulatory approval in the U.S. in June 2011. After receiving CE Mark for this system in May 2011 and Health Canada approval in October 2011,
Abbott is continuing to provide R D support as the product is
launched in additional markets. Development is also continuing on an updated hospital blood glucose monitoring system for which filings for approval are projected to be submitted in the U.S. and
Europe during the first half of 2013. Abbott is also developing a next-generation monitoring system under the Precision product platform. Abbott anticipates submitting filings for approval
in various markets in 2013.   

  Nutrition  
Abbott is focusing its research and development spend on six benefit platforms that span the pediatric, adult and performance nutrition areas: immunity, cognition, lean
body mass, inflammation, metabolism and tolerance. Numerous new products that build on advances in these benefit platforms are currently under development and are expected to be launched in 2012.   

          Given
the diversity of Abbott's business, its intention to remain a broad-based healthcare company and the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project
is expected to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years. Factors considered included research and development expenses projected to be incurred for the project
(compound or device) over the next year relative to Abbott's total research and development expenses as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new product on
Abbott's overall market position. There were no delays in Abbott's 2011 research and development activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations.   

          While
the aggregate cost to complete the numerous pharmaceutical and medical device projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend
upon Abbott's ability to successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential for significant delays and the high
rate of failure inherent in the research and development of new pharmaceutical and medical device products and technologies, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all
projects currently in development. However, Abbott plans to continue to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spend equal to approximately 9.5 percent to
10 percent of sales each year. Abbott does not regularly accumulate or make management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular development phase in a given period.   

Generally,
Abbott seeks to obtain various forms of exclusivity for each product in development. Abbott obtains patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or
countries for each product in development. Additionally, Abbott also seeks to obtain other forms of legal or regulatory   

  43  

Table of Contents   

  exclusivity
that would protect the product upon approval. These forms of regulatory exclusivity have a variety of terms, from 3, 5 to 7 years in the United States, and up to
10 years in the European Union. This regulatory exclusivity is granted upon the approval of each development project. In certain
instances, regulatory exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. The availability of and length of such
regulatory exclusivity is based, in part, on the length of the regulatory review process and can only be determined upon product approval. It is not possible to estimate for each product in
development the total period of exclusivity that will be obtained if regulatory approval is obtained.   

Generally,
upon approval, products in development may be entitled to exclusivity. Abbott seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each
product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents filed on or after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to
pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory
approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration may be significantly less than 20 years if a product in development ultimately obtains regulatory approval. The Drug
Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension commonly called a patent term
restoration for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The calculation of the patent extension is roughly based on
50 percent of the period of time extending from the filing of an Investigational New Drug application to the submission of the NDA, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA
submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed 5 years and the remaining patent term after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Only one patent related
to the first commercial marketing of a newly approved pharmaceutical product is eligible for a patent term restoration.   

          Additionally,
products may be entitled to obtain other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. These forms of regulatory exclusivity have a variety of terms in the United
States and are variable in other jurisdictions. In the United States, when the FDA approves a new chemical entity that it has not previously approved alone or in combination with other chemical
entities, the product is granted 5 years of regulatory exclusivity. The FDA may grant 3 years of market exclusivity for an NDA, including supplementary applications, if the application
contains reports of new clinical investigations that have not previously been relied upon by the FDA. If the FDA grants pediatric exclusivity, the longest existing exclusivity (patent or regulatory)
related to the product would be extended by 6 months. If the FDA designates a product as an orphan drug that is either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for
which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may grant 7 years of exclusivity.   

This
regulatory exclusivity is granted upon the approval of each development project. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no
longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period of exclusivity that will be obtained if
regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the minimum and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be
achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed 3 and 14 years, respectively. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the
manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge that may provide some level of additional protection against generic incursion.   

    Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

          On September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded
generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Abbott recorded a $1.6 billion liability for the
present   

  44  

Table of Contents   

  value
of the additional payments at the acquisition date. The acquisition was financed with cash. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of $2.7 billion
of deductible acquired intangible assets and $1.0 billion of deductible goodwill. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of trade names, customer relationships and associated rights and
are amortized over an average of 19 years.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals) for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of up to EUR
100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Contingent consideration of approximately $290 million was recorded. The acquisition of Solvay
Pharmaceuticals provides Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expands Abbott's presence in key global emerging markets. Abbott acquired control of this
business on February 15, 2010 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. Net sales for the acquired operations for
2010 were approximately $3.1 billion. Pretax loss of the acquired operations, including acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses, for 2010 was approximately $395 million. The
acquisition was funded with cash and short-term investments. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below    (in billions of
dollars)   .   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  2.2  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

4.1  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.5  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.7  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(1.1  
  )  

Total allocation of fair value  
     
  $  
  6.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed products and are amortized over 2 to 14 years (average of 11 years). Acquired
in-process research and development projects are accounted for as indefinite lived intangible assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist
primarily of trade accounts receivable of approximately $675 million, inventory of approximately $390 million, property and equipment of approximately $725 million, net of assumed
liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities.   

          Had
the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals taken place on January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2009, unaudited pro forma net sales, net earnings and diluted earnings
per share for 2010 and 2009 would have been $35.8 billion and $34.2 billion, $4.6 billion and $5.2 billion and $2.96 and $3.36, respectively. The pro forma
information includes adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and fair value adjustments to acquisition-date inventory as well as acquisition, integration and restructuring
expenses. The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations as they would have been had the transaction been effected on the assumed date.   

          In
March 2010, Abbott acquired STARLIMS Technologies for approximately $100 million, in cash, net of cash held by STARLIMS, providing Abbott with leading products and expertise to
build its position in laboratory informatics. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets.   

          In
April 2010, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition enhances
Abbott's early- and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program. A substantial
portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to acquired in-process research and development that is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset
until regulatory approval or discontinuation.   

  45  

Table of Contents    

          In February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion, in cash, net of cash
held by AMO. Prior to the acquisition, Abbott held a small investment in AMO. Abbott acquired AMO to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and
demographic shifts and AMO's premier position in its field. Abbott acquired control of this business on February 25, 2009 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in
these financial statements beginning on that date. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible goodwill of approximately $1.7 billion,
non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $900 million and net tangible assets of approximately $400 million. In addition, Abbott assumed
$1.5 billion of debt. Acquired intangible assets consist of established customer relationships, developed technology and trade names and are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average of
15 years). In addition, subsequent to the acquisition, Abbott repaid substantially all of the acquired debt of AMO.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million, in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating
intraocular lens (IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in
non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $200 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory
approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $24 million and goodwill of approximately $200 million.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory
milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of non-surgical treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has
acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording
$28 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible
assets of approximately $140 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $220 million which is accounted for as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, goodwill of approximately $100 million and deferred income taxes of approximately $110 million. Acquired
intangible assets consist of developed technology and are being amortized over 11 years.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. (Ibis) for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious disease.
Including a $40 million investment in Ibis in 2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been
allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, and acquired in-process research and development which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory
approval or discontinuation. The investment in Ibis in 2008 resulted in a charge to acquired in-process research and development. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of
this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording $33 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net.   

          Except
for the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          In
2011, Abbott entered into a collaboration agreement for the joint development and commercialization of second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators resulting in a charge
to acquired in-process research and development of $400 million. In 2010, Abbott entered into an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the U.S., excluding certain Asian
markets, to a product in development for the treatment of chronic kidney disease resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of $238 million. In 2011,
certain milestones were achieved and charges to acquired in-process research and development of $188 million were recorded. Additional payments of approximately   

  46  

Table of Contents   

  $200 million
could be required for the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. In addition, equity interests of approximately $62 million each were acquired in 2011
and 2010. In 2011, Abbott entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research
and development of $85 million. Additional payments totaling up to $395 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under
the agreement. In 2010, Abbott also entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize a product for the treatment of endometriosis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process
research and development of $75 million. Additional payments of approximately $500 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial
milestones under this agreement. In 2009, Abbott acquired the global rights to a novel biologic for the treatment of chronic pain for $170 million resulting in a charge to acquired
in-process research and development.   

    Goodwill     

          At December 31, 2011, goodwill recorded as a result of business combinations totaled $15.7 billion. Goodwill is reviewed
for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. The results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in
excess of its carrying value except for the Medical Optics unit. While the fair value of the Medical Optics business exceeds its carrying value, extended economic pressure on government-reimbursed
cataract procedures in Europe and on the global LASIK surgery business as well as longer regulatory approval timelines for products currently under development could result in a valuation in the
future where the fair value of the Medical Optics unit has declined below its carrying value, thereby triggering the requirement to estimate the implied fair value of the goodwill and measure for
impairment.   

    Financial Condition     

    Cash Flow     

          Net cash from operating activities amounted to $9.0 billion, $8.7 billion and $7.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Trade accounts payable and other liabilities in Net cash from operating activities in 2011 includes the non-cash impact of a litigation reserve of $1.5 billion and
Income taxes payable includes $580 million of tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to prior years. While substantially all of Abbott's cash and
cash equivalents at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, Abbott does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital
resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the U.S., Abbott would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. Abbott believes that it has sufficient sources
of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at December 31, 2011 can be considered to be reinvested indefinitely. Abbott funded
$394 million in 2011, $525 million in 2010 and $862 million in 2009 to defined pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of
$200 million annually. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends.   

          For
2010, the reductions in cash and cash equivalents due to the effect of exchange rate changes was primarily driven by the impact of changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to
the euro on non-dollar denominated cash and cash equivalents. While future fluctuations in the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could have a substantial effect on the
dollar value of Abbott's cash and cash equivalents, such fluctuations are not expected to materially impact Abbott's liquidity.   

          As
discussed above, the United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, is investigating Abbott's sales and marketing
activities for    Depakote   . Abbott recorded a non-cash charge of $1.5 billion in 2011 related to this investigation. However, the
discussions to resolve potential civil and criminal claims related to this matter are ongoing, and until   

  47  

Table of Contents   

  concluded,
there can be no certainty about definitive resolution. The ultimate resolution of this matter in any reporting period is expected to have a material impact on Abbott's cash flows for that
year.   

    Debt and Capital     

          At December 31, 2011, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by
Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $6.7 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a
$3.0 billion facility expires in October 2012 and a $3.7 billion facility expires in 2013. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and
commitment fees are not material.   

          In
October 2008, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time. Under this authorization, 14.8 million and
14.5 million shares were purchased in 2010 and 2009 at a cost of approximately $800 million in both years. No shares were purchased under this authorization in 2011. Abbott plans to
purchase shares from time to time in 2012.   

          In
2011, Abbott repaid $2 billion of long-term notes using primarily short-term borrowings. Under a registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in February 2009, Abbott issued $3.0 billion of long-term debt in the second quarter of 2010 that matures in 2015, 2020 and 2040 with interest rates of
2.7 percent, 4.125 percent and 5.3 percent, respectively. Proceeds from this debt were used to pay down short-term borrowings. Abbott is in the process of evaluating
the impact of the proposed separation on its future capitalization structure and liquidity. In 2012, Abbott expects to tender for a portion of its outstanding long-term debt with the
tender funded by debt issued by the new pharmaceutical company. Under the February 2009 registration statement, Abbott issued $3.0 billion of long-term debt in the first quarter of
2009 that matures in 2019 and 2039 with interest rates of 5.125 percent and 6.0 percent, respectively. Proceeds from this debt were used to fund the acquisition of Advanced Medical
Optics, Inc. and to repay debt of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. In addition, Abbott repaid $1 billion of long-term notes that were due in 2009 using primarily
short-term borrowings.   

          The
judgment entered in 2009 by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc. required
Abbott to secure the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court was unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. In the first quarter of 2010, Abbott deposited
$1.87 billion with an escrow agent and considered these assets to be restricted. On February 23, 2011, the Federal Circuit reversed the district court's final judgment and found
Centocor's patent invalid. On April 25, 2011, Centocor petitioned the Federal Circuit to rehear and reconsider the decision. In June 2011 the Federal Circuit denied Centocor's petition and the
restrictions on the funds were lifted.   

    Working Capital     

          Working capital was $8.3 billion at December 31, 2011, $5.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and
$10.3 billion at December 31, 2009. The increase in working capital in 2011 was due primarily to higher cash generated from operating activities and lower debt levels. The decrease in
working capital in 2010 was due primarily to cash and investments used to acquire Solvay's pharmaceuticals business and Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.   

          A
significant amount of Abbott's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain are with governmental health systems. Given the economic conditions and sovereign debt issues in
these countries, the time it takes to collect outstanding receivables increased in 2011. Outstanding net governmental receivables in these four countries totaled $1.73 billion,
$1.50 billion, and $1.59 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The percentage of governmental receivables in these four countries over a year past due was
27 percent, 22 percent, and 23 percent at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. With the exception of Greece, Abbott historically has collected almost all of the
outstanding receivables in these countries. Abbott continues to monitor the credit worthiness of customers located in   

  48  

Table of Contents   

  these
and other geographic areas and establishes an allowance against a trade receivable when it is probable that the balance will not be collected. If government funding were to become unavailable in
these countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, Abbott may not be able to collect the entire balance.   

    Capital Expenditures     

          Capital expenditures of $1.5 billion in 2011, $1.0 billion in 2010 and $1.1 billion in 2009 were principally for
upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development, investments in information technology and administrative support facilities in all segments, and for laboratory instruments placed with
customers.   

    Contractual Obligations     

          The following table summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011:     (dollars in millions)   

(a)    Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements.
      (b)    Unrecognized
tax benefits totaling $1.9 billion are excluded from the table above as Abbott is unable to reasonably estimate the period of cash
settlement with the respective taxing authorities on such items.    

Contingent Obligations     

          Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other
companies which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other
parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these
agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on
the occurrence of certain events.   

    Recently Issued Accounting Standards     

          In 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an amendment to Topic 270 in the FASB's Accounting Standards
Codification. The amendment requires that all non-owner changes in   

  49  

Table of Contents   

  stockholders'
equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Abbott adopted this amendment for the year ended
December 31, 2011 and retrospectively presented all non-owner changes in stockholders' equity in two separate but consecutive statements. Adoption of this amendment did not have a
material impact on Abbott's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.   

Legislative Issues     

          In the first quarter 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act
(collectively referred to herein as "health care reform legislation") were signed into law in the U.S. Health care reform legislation included an increase in the basic Medicaid rebate rate from
15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and extended the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid managed care organizations. These Medicaid rebate changes will
continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margin of the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment in future years.   

          Beginning
in 2013, health care reform legislation will eliminate the federal income tax deduction for prescription drug expenses of retirees for which Abbott receives reimbursement under
the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy program. As a result, Abbott recorded a charge of approximately $60 million in the first quarter 2010 to reduce deferred tax assets associated
with retiree health care liabilities.   

          In
2011, Abbott began recording the annual fee imposed by health care reform legislation on companies that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. The amount of
the annual fee will be based on the ratio of certain of Abbott's sales as compared to the total such sales of all covered entities multiplied by a fixed dollar amount specified in the legislation by
year. In 2011, additional rebates were incurred related to the Medicare Part D coverage gap "donut hole." Beginning in 2013, Abbott will record the 2.3 percent excise tax imposed by
health care reform legislation on the sale of certain medical devices in the U.S.   

          Abbott's
primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of
delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these
factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     

          Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K.   

  50  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

    Financial Instruments and Risk Management     

    Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          Abbott holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of
these investments was approximately $93 million and $75 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines
in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would
decrease their fair value at December 31, 2011 by approximately $18 million. (A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share
prices.)   

    Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          Abbott holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value
of these investments was approximately $224 million and $165 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. One equity investment is recorded at $124 million with
no other individual investment in excess of $18 million. Abbott monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an
other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.   

    Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          At December 31, 2011 and 2010, Abbott had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $6.8 billion and $7.3 billion,
respectively, to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of debt. The effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. Abbott does not use derivative financial
instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its investment securities. At December 31, 2011, Abbott had $450 million of domestic
commercial paper outstanding with an average annual interest rate of 0.07% with an average remaining life of 12 days. The fair value of long-term debt at December 31, 2011
and 2010 amounted to $15.1 billion and $15.7 billion, respectively (average interest rates of 5.2%) with maturities through 2040. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of
current and long-term investment securities amounted to approximately $1.7 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 100-basis point change in the
interest rates would not have a material effect on cash flows, income or market values. (A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in
rates.)   

    Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments     

          Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign
exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability
of the cash flows due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and are marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss). Gains or losses will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally within the next twelve months. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, Abbott held
$1.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany loans and trade payables and third-party trade payables
and receivables. The contracts are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency
exposure being managed. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, Abbott held $15.7 billion and $10.8 billion, respectively, of such contracts, which mature in the next twelve months.   

  51  

Table of Contents   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt of approximately $680 million and approximately $650 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign subsidiary. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010:    (dollars in
millions)   

52  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Consolidated Statement of Earnings   
     
   54   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   
     
   55   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   
     
   56   

Consolidated Balance Sheet   
     
   57   

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   
     
   59   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   60   

Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
     
   89   

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     
   90   

53  

Table of Contents   

            Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Earnings   (dollars and shares in thousands except per share data)     

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  54  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   (dollars in thousands)            

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  55  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   (dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  56  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Balance Sheet   (dollars in thousands)            

57  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(dollars in thousands)     

The
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  58  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment   (dollars in thousands except per share data)            

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.   

  59  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

NATURE OF BUSINESS   Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products.   

          CONCENTRATION
OF RISK AND GUARANTEES   Due to the nature of its operations, Abbott is not subject to significant concentration risks relating to customers, products or
geographic locations, except that three U.S. wholesalers accounted for 22 percent of trade receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 23 percent of trade receivables as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009. In addition, governmental accounts in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain accounted for 23 percent, 21 percent, and 24 percent of total net trade
receivables as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Product warranties are not significant.   

          Abbott
has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; nor activities that include non-exchange-traded contracts
accounted for at fair value. Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other companies which has resulted in Abbott
becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other parties, Abbott is unable to develop an
estimate of the maximum
potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. Abbott periodically acquires a business
or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events.   

          BASIS
OF CONSOLIDATION AND CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE   Prior to January 1, 2011, the accounts of foreign subsidiaries were consolidated based on a fiscal
year ended November 30 due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. Effective January 1, 2011, the one month lag in the consolidation of the accounts of foreign subsidiaries
was eliminated and the year-end of foreign subsidiaries was changed to December 31. Abbott believes that the change in accounting principle related to the elimination of the one
month reporting lag is preferable because it will result in more contemporaneous reporting of the results of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with applicable accounting literature, a change in
subsidiaries' year-end is treated as a change in accounting principle and requires retrospective application. The cumulative effect of the change was an increase in retained earnings of
$289 million as of January 1, 2009 and a corresponding decrease in other long-term liabilities. The impact of the change was not material to the results of operations for the
previously reported annual and interim periods after January 1, 2009, and thus, those results have not been revised. A charge of $137 million was recorded to Other (income) expense, net
in 2011 to recognize the cumulative immaterial impacts to 2009 and 2010. Had the financial statements been revised, net sales, operating earnings and net earnings in 2009 would have increased by
$211 million, $36 million and $38 million, respectively, and net sales, operating earnings and net earnings in 2010 would have decreased by $21 million, $195 million
and $175 million, respectively.   

          The
balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 have been appropriately revised to include long-term deferred tax liabilities of $1.1 billion and $165 million,
respectively, within Post-employment obligations and other long-term liabilities. Such amounts had previously been netted within Deferred income taxes and other assets.   

In
2011, Abbott changed its presentation of comprehensive income to include a Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in accordance with FASB ASC No. 220, "Comprehensive
Income."   

          USE
OF ESTIMATES   The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates   

  60  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  and
assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and other post-employment
benefits, valuation of intangible assets, litigation, derivative financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

          REVENUE
RECOGNITION   Revenue from product sales is recognized upon passage of title and risk of loss to customers. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales
incentives to customers, and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily
available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for
shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary.
In certain of Abbott's businesses, primarily within diagnostics and medical optics, Abbott participates in selling arrangements that include multiple deliverables (e.g., instruments, reagents,
procedures, and service agreements). Under these arrangements, Abbott recognizes revenue upon delivery of the product or performance of the service and allocates the revenue based on the relative
selling price of each deliverable, which is based primarily on vendor specific objective evidence. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the
rights. Revenue from license of product rights, or for performance of research or selling activities, is recorded over the periods earned.   

INCOME
TAXES   Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the
financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted
to the parent company. Deferred income taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as working capital and plant and equipment. Interest and
penalties on income tax obligations are included in taxes on income.   

          EARNINGS
PER SHARE   Unvested restricted stock units and awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends are treated as participating securities
and are included in the computation of earnings per share under the two-class method. Under the two-class method, net earnings are allocated between common shares and
participating securities. Net earnings allocated to common shares in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $4.714 billion, $4.613 billion and $5.733 billion, respectively.   

          PENSION
AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS   Abbott accrues for the actuarially determined cost of pension and post-employment benefits over the
service attribution periods of the employees. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected
return on plan assets. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return are amortized over a five-year period. Actuarial losses and gains
are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method.   

          FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS   For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, total fair value is the published market price per unit
multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar
assets or liabilities, adjusted for contract restrictions and other terms specific to that asset or liability. For these items, a significant portion of fair value is derived by reference to quoted
prices of similar assets or liabilities in active markets. For all   

  61  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  remaining
assets and liabilities, fair value is derived using a fair value model, such as a discounted cash flow model or Black-Scholes model. Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value.
The fair value of significant purchased intangible assets is based on independent appraisals. Abbott uses a discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets. The discounted cash flow model
requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Intangible assets, goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least on a quarterly and annual basis, respectively.   

          SHARE-BASED
COMPENSATION   The value of stock options and restricted stock awards and units are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the
vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense.   

          LITIGATION  
Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions
are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. Legal fees are recorded as incurred.   

          CASH,
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS   Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less.
Investments in marketable equity securities and certain investments in debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized
holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges are recorded at cost.
Investments in other debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity, as management has both the intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity, and are reported at
cost, net of any unamortized premium or discount. Income relating to these securities is reported as interest income.   

          Abbott
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. Abbott considers factors affecting the
investee, factors
affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. Abbott considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and the
near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. When Abbott determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the investment is written down with a charge to Other (income)
expense, net.   

          TRADE
RECEIVABLE VALUATIONS   Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross trade receivables reflects the best estimate of
probable losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available information.
Accounts receivable are charged off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where appropriate) have been exhausted.   

          INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.   

  62  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

PROPERTY
AND EQUIPMENT   Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following
table shows estimated useful lives of property and equipment:   

PRODUCT
LIABILITY   Abbott accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. Product liability losses are self-insured.   

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS   Internal research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the
contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the
milestone results are achieved.   

          ACQUIRED
IN-PROCESS AND COLLABORATIONS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (IPR D)   The initial costs of rights to IPR D projects obtained in an asset acquisition
are expensed as IPR D unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development
collaboration agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. The fair value of IPR D projects acquired in a business combination are capitalized
and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets.   

Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information     

The
judgment entered by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Abbott in its litigation with New York University and Centocor, Inc. required Abbott to
secure the judgment in the event that its appeal to the Federal Circuit court was unsuccessful in overturning the district court's decision. In the first quarter of 2010, Abbott deposited
$1.87 billion with an escrow agent and considered these assets to be restricted. On February 23, 2011, the Federal Circuit reversed the district court's final judgment and found
Centocor's patent invalid. On April 25, 2011 Centocor petitioned the Federal Circuit   

  63  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 2   Supplemental Financial Information (Continued)    

  to
rehear and reconsider the decision. In June 2011 the Federal Circuit denied Centocor's petition and the restrictions on the funds were lifted.   

          As
discussed in Note 1, Other (income) expense, net, for 2011 includes a charge of $137 million to recognize the cumulative immaterial impacts to 2009 and 2010 relating to
the change in year end for foreign subsidiaries. In addition, Other (income) expense, net, for 2011 includes $56 million of fair value adjustments and accretion in the contingent consideration
related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceutical business. Other (income) expense, net, for 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 million associated with the
conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture. The contingent liability was established at the conclusion of the joint venture as Abbott agreed to remit cash to Takeda if
certain research and development events were not achieved on the development assets retained by Takeda. In 2009, the research and development events were achieved and the contingent liability was
derecognized. In addition, Other (income) expense, net for 2009 includes a $287 million gain from the settlement reached between Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. resolving all outstanding
intellectual property litigation between the two parties and income from the recording of certain investments at fair value in connection with business acquisitions. Other (income) expense, net, for
2011, 2010 and 2009 also includes ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture.   

(a)    Accrued
wholesaler chargeback rebates of    $   202, $216 and $217 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, are netted in trade receivables because Abbott's customers are invoiced at a higher catalog price but only remit to Abbott their contract price for the products.
      (b)    2011
includes $1,509 related to a previously disclosed government investigation and $400 for acquired in-process research and development. 2011
and 2010 includes acquisition consideration payable of $400 related to the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business.    

(c)    2011
and 2010 includes acquisition consideration payable of $770 and $1,150, respectively, related to the acquisition of Piramal Healthcare Limited's
Healthcare Solutions business.    
  64  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures     

Certain Abbott foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany purchases
by those subsidiaries whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. These contracts, totaling $1.6 billion, $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign exchange rates and are recorded at fair value. Accumulated gains and losses as
of December 31, 2011 will be included in Cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not
significant in 2011, 2010 and 2009.   

          Abbott
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage currency exposures for foreign currency denominated third-party trade payables and receivables, and for
intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the receivable or payable is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. For intercompany loans, the contracts
require Abbott to sell or buy foreign currencies, primarily European currencies and Japanese yen, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other European currencies. For intercompany and trade
payables and receivables, the currency exposures are primarily the U.S. dollar, European currencies and Japanese yen. At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, Abbott held $15.7 billion,
$10.8 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          Abbott
has designated foreign denominated short-term debt as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign subsidiary of approximately $680 million, $650 million
and $575 million as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this debt due to changes in exchange rates are recorded in Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.   

          Abbott
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts totaling $6.8 billion, $7.3 billion and $5.5 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, to
manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt. These contracts are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt
due to changes in the long-term benchmark interest rates. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a variable rate for that portion of the debt.
Abbott records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in income in 2011, 2010 and
2009 for these hedges.   

          Gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $64 million and $(2) million, respectively, at December 31,
2011, $40 million and $(1) million, respectively, at December 31, 2010; and $42 million and $(3) million, respectively, at December 31, 2009.   

  65  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

          The
following table summarizes the amounts and location of certain derivative financial instruments as of December 31:   

The following table summarizes the activity for foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, debt designated as a
hedge of net investment in a foreign subsidiary and the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss) reclassified into income and for certain other derivative financial instruments. The
amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in 2011, 2010 and 2009 for these hedges.   

The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges of the variability of the fair value of fixed-rate debt due to changes in
the long-term benchmark interest rates. The hedged debt is marked to market, offsetting the effect of marking the interest rate swaps to market.   

The
carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below. The carrying values of all other financial instruments
approximate their estimated fair   

  66  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

  values.
The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. Abbott does not expect any losses from nonperformance by these counterparties.   

67  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 3   Financial Instruments, Derivatives and Fair Value Measures (Continued)    

The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:   

The fair value of the debt was determined based on the face value of the debt adjusted for the fair value of the interest rate swaps, which is
based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined based on an independent appraisal adjusted for the time value of money, exchange and other
changes in fair value.   

  68  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits     

Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution and medical and dental plans. Information for Abbott's major defined benefit plans and post-employment
medical and dental benefit plans is as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

The projected benefit obligations for non-U.S. defined benefit plans was $2.3 billion, $3.0 billion and
$2.0 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit plans was $7.7 billion, $7.5 billion and
$5.8 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For plans where the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the
aggregate accumulated benefit obligations were $6.7 billion, $2.0 billion and   

  69  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

  $1.5 billion,
respectively; the projected benefit obligations were $7.9 billion, $2.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively; and the aggregate plan assets were
$5.8 billion, $1.1 billion and $780 million, respectively.   

Other
comprehensive income (loss) for 2011 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $163 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial
losses of $1.1 billion for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $38 million and $42 million, respectively, and net actuarial
gains of $66 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2010 includes amortization of actuarial losses and prior service cost of $136 million and
$4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $305 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits of $38 million and
$22 million, respectively, and net actuarial gains of $177 million for medical and dental plans. Other comprehensive income (loss) for 2009 includes amortization of actuarial losses and
prior service cost of $52 million and $4 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $197 million for defined benefit plans and amortization of actuarial losses and prior
service credits of $30 million and $22 million, respectively, and net actuarial losses of $128 million for medical and dental plans. The pretax amount of actuarial losses and
prior service cost (credits) included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31, 2011 that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2012 is
$253 million and $4 million,
respectively, for defined benefit pension plans and $35 million and $(42) million, respectively, for medical and dental plans.   

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

70  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

          The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net cost for defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans are as follows:   

The
assumed health care cost trend rates for medical and dental plans at December 31 were as follows:   

The
discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The
health care cost trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A
one-percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2011, by $231 million/$(188) million, and the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-employment health care cost for the year then
ended by approximately $25 million/$(20) million.   

  71  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure defined benefit plans' assets at fair value:   

(a)    A
mix of index funds that track the S P 500 (45 percent in 2011 and 2010 and 40 percent in 2009) and separate actively managed equity
accounts that are benchmarked to the Russell 1000 (55 percent in 2011 and 2010 and 60 percent in 2009).    

72  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

(b)    A
mix of index funds (75 percent) and separate actively managed equity accounts (25 percent) that track or are benchmarked to the
S P 400 midcap index.
      (c)    Primarily
separate actively managed pooled investment accounts that are benchmarked to the MSCI and MSCI emerging market indices.
      (d)    Index
funds not actively managed (45 percent in 2011 and 2010 and 75 percent in 2009) and separate actively managed accounts
(55 percent in 2011 and 2010 and 25 percent in 2009).
      (e)    Index
funds not actively managed (40 percent in 2011, 15 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009) and separate actively managed accounts
(60 percent in 2011, 85 percent in 2010 and 25 percent in 2009).
      (f)    Primarily
United Kingdom, Japan and Irish government-issued bonds.
      (g)    Primarily
mortgage backed securities.
      (h)    Primarily
funds invested by managers that have a global mandate with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and
strategies including, but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, interest rate futures, currencies and other securities to outperform an agreed upon benchmark with specific return and
volatility targets.
      (i)    Primarily
investments in liquid commodity future contracts.
      (j)    Primarily
cash and cash equivalents.    

Equities
that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that are valued using
significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its
liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors.
Absolute return funds and commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator.   

          The
following table summarizes the change in the value of assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs:   

The
investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity
securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income
securities, maturities and credit quality. The   

  73  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 4   Post-Employment Benefits (Continued)    

  plans
do not directly hold any securities of Abbott. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plans' assets. Abbott's medical and dental plans' assets are invested in a similar mix
as the pension plan assets.   

          The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment
portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market
conditions.   

          Abbott
funds its domestic pension plans according to IRS funding limitations. International pension plans are funded according to similar regulations. Abbott funded $394 million
in 2011, $525 million in 2010 and $862 million in 2009 to defined pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding for its main domestic pension plan of $200 million annually.   

Total
benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans, are as follows:
(   dollars in millions   )   

The
Abbott Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan. Abbott's contributions to this plan were $151 million in 2011, $147 million in 2010 and
$137 million in 2009.   

          Abbott
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the related cost over the
service lives of the employees.   

    Note 5   Taxes on Earnings     

Taxes on earnings reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts. U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings of foreign subsidiaries which are intended to be remitted to the
parent company. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries. Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as
working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $31.9 billion at December 31, 2011. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes not provided on these
earnings. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through 2008 are settled except for one item, and the income tax returns for years after 2008 are open. There are numerous other income tax
jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. Reserves for interest and penalties are not significant.   

  74  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 5   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)     

Earnings
before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings, were as follows: (   dollars in millions   )   

Differences
between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax rate were as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, total deferred tax assets were $6.3 billion, $6.1 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, and total deferred tax
liabilities were $2.9 billion, $3.0 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. Abbott has incurred losses in a foreign jurisdiction where realization of the future economic benefit
is so remote that the benefit is not reflected as a deferred tax asset. Valuation allowances for   

  75  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 5   Taxes on Earnings (Continued)    

  recorded
deferred tax assets were not significant. The tax effect of the differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: (   dollars in
millions   )   

The
following table summarizes the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits without regard to reduction in tax liabilities or additions to deferred tax assets and liabilities if such
unrecognized tax benefits were settled. (   dollars in millions   )   

The
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate is approximately $1.9 billion. Abbott believes that it is reasonably
possible that the recorded amount of
gross unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by up to $550 million, including cash adjustments, within the next twelve months as a result of concluding various domestic and international tax
matters.   

    Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information     

Abbott's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of health care products. Abbott's products are generally sold directly to retailers,
wholesalers, hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and government agencies throughout the world. Effective January 1, 2011, Abbott's segments were reorganized to
reflect the shift of international branded generic pharmaceutical products to a newly formed division, Established Pharmaceuticals, and the combination of the domestic and international proprietary
pharmaceuticals businesses into one global   

  76  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

  division.
The segment information below has been adjusted to reflect the reorganizations. Abbott's reportable segments are as follows:   

            Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of proprietary pharmaceutical products.   

            Established Pharmaceutical Products       International sales of a broad line of branded generic pharmaceutical products.   

Nutritional Products       Worldwide sales of a broad line of adult and pediatric nutritional products.   

            Diagnostic Products       Worldwide sales of diagnostic systems and tests for blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories and
alternate-care testing sites. For segment reporting purposes, the Core Laboratories Diagnostics, Molecular Diagnostics, Point of Care and Ibis diagnostic divisions are aggregated and
reported as the Diagnostic Products segment.   

           Vascular Products       Worldwide sales of coronary, endovascular, structural heart, vessel closure and other medical device products.   

          Non-reportable
segments include the Diabetes Care and Medical Optics segments.   

          Abbott's
underlying accounting records are maintained on a legal entity basis for government and public reporting requirements. Segment disclosures are on a performance basis consistent
with internal management reporting. Intersegment transfers of inventory are recorded at standard cost and are not a measure of segment operating earnings. The cost of some corporate functions and the
cost of certain employee benefits are charged to segments at predetermined rates that approximate cost. Remaining costs, if any, are not allocated to segments. For acquisitions prior to 2006,
substantially all intangible assets and related amortization are not allocated to segments. In addition, no intangible assets or related amortization are allocated to the Established Pharmaceutical
Products segment. The following segment information has been prepared in accordance with the internal accounting policies of Abbott, as described above, and are not presented in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles applied to the consolidated financial statements.    (dollars in millions)   

(a)    Net
sales and operating earnings were favorably affected by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar in 2011 and 2010 and for 2009 were unfavorably affected by the
relatively stronger U.S. dollar.    

77  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(b)    Additions
to long-term assets in 2010 for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment include goodwill of $2,797.    

(c)    Other,
net, for 2011 includes a charge of $1,509 related to a previously disclosed government investigation. Other, net, for 2011 and 2010 includes charges
of $402 and $881, respectively, for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the acquisitions of Solvay and Piramal and, in 2010, $189 for the impairment of the intangible asset
related to sibutramine. Other, net, for 2009, includes the derecognition of a contingent liability of $797 established in connection with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture and a $287 gain from a
patent litigation settlement.    

78  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 6   Segment and Geographic Area Information (Continued)    

(d)    Sales
by country are based on the country that sold the product.    

    Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters     

Abbott has been identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under federal and state
remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a number of company-owned locations. Abbott has recorded an estimated cleanup cost for each site for which management believes Abbott
has a probable loss exposure. No individual site cleanup exposure is expected to exceed $4 million, and the aggregate cleanup exposure is not expected to exceed $15 million.   

          There
are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim Abbott's products infringe their patents. In April 2007, New York University (NYU) and Centocor, Inc. filed a
lawsuit in the Eastern District of Texas asserting that    HUMIRA    infringes a patent co-owned by NYU and Centocor and exclusively licensed to
Centocor. In June 2009, a jury found that Abbott had willfully infringed the patent and awarded NYU and Centocor approximately $1.67 billion in past compensatory damages. In December 2009, the
district court issued a final judgment and awarded the plaintiffs an additional $175 million in prejudgment interest. On February 23, 2011, the Federal Circuit reversed the district
court's final judgment and found Centocor's patent invalid. On April 25, 2011 Centocor petitioned the Federal Circuit to rehear and reconsider the decision. In June 2011 the Federal Circuit
denied Centocor's request to reconsider. In November 2011, Centocor, now known as Janssen Biotech, Inc., petitioned the United States Supreme Court to review the Federal Circuit's decision.
Abbott is confident in the merits of its case and, as a result, no reserves have been recorded in this case.   

The
United States Department of Justice, through the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, is investigating Abbott's sales and marketing activities for     Depakote   . The government is
seeking to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims
Act, the Food and Drug Cosmetic Act, and the anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement to third parties. In addition, eight state Attorneys General
Offices (Florida, Illinois, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas) have formed a committee on behalf of themselves and other State Attorneys General to investigate
Abbott's sales and marketing activities for    Depakote    to determine whether any of these activities violated various state laws,   

  79  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 7   Litigation and Environmental Matters (Continued)    

  including
state consumer fraud/protection statutes. Discussions to resolve potential civil and criminal claims arising from this matter have advanced to a point where Abbott believes a loss is
probable and estimable and therefore, Abbott recorded a charge of $1.5 billion in 2011. If the discussions are successfully concluded, Abbott expects the discussions to result in resolution of
the    Depakote   -related federal claims, as well as similar state Medicaid-related claims, but not state consumer fraud/protection claims. However, the
discussions are ongoing, and until concluded, there can be no certainty about definitive resolution.   

          Within
the next year, legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Abbott. For its legal proceedings and environmental exposures Abbott
estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $1.59 billion to $1.63 billion, which includes the $1.5 billion charge discussed above. The recorded reserve balance
at December 31, 2011 for these proceedings and exposures was approximately $1.6 billion. These reserves represent management's best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC
No. 450, "Contingencies."   

          While
it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all such proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations except for the federal government investigation discussed in the third paragraph of this footnote, the resolution of
which is expected to be material to cash flows in a given year.   

          In
2009, Abbott and Medtronic, Inc. reached a settlement resolving all outstanding intellectual property litigation between the two parties. Under the terms of the settlement,
Medtronic paid Abbott $400 million. The settlement also includes a mutual agreement not to pursue additional litigation on current and future vascular products, subject to specific conditions
and time limits. In connection with the settlement, Abbott recognized a gain of $287 million which is included in Other (income) expense, net. The remaining amounts were recognized as royalty
income as earned.   

    Note 8   Incentive Stock Program     

The 2009 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of nonqualified stock options, replacement stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards,
foreign benefits and other share-based awards. Stock options, replacement stock options and restricted stock awards and units comprise the majority of benefits that have been granted and are currently
outstanding under this program and a prior program. In 2011, Abbott granted 1,757,339 stock options, 852,819 replacement stock options, 1,180,159 restricted stock awards and 6,793,336 restricted stock
units under this program. The purchase price of shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of an option is
10 years. Options vest equally over three years except for replacement options, which vest in six months. Options granted before January 1, 2005 included a replacement feature. Except
for options outstanding that have a replacement feature, options granted after December 31, 2004 do not include a replacement feature. When an employee tenders mature shares to Abbott upon
exercise of a stock option, a replacement stock option may be granted equal to the amount of shares tendered. Replacement options are granted at the then current market price for a term that expires
on the date of the underlying option grant. Upon a change in control of Abbott, all outstanding stock options become fully exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards and
units are deemed satisfied. Restricted stock awards generally vest between 3 and 5 years and for restricted stock awards that vest over 5 years, no more than one-third of the
award vests in any one year upon Abbott reaching a minimum return on equity target. Restricted stock units vest over three years and upon vesting,   

  80  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 8   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

  the
recipient receives one share of Abbott stock for each vested restricted stock unit. The aggregate fair market value of restricted stock awards and units is recognized as expense over the service
period. Restricted stock awards and settlement of vested restricted stock units are issued out of treasury shares. Abbott generally issues new shares for exercises of stock options. Abbott does not
have a policy of purchasing its shares relating to its share-based programs. At December 31, 2011, approximately 180 million shares were reserved for future grants. Subsequent to
year-end, the reserve
was reduced by approximately 25 million shares for stock options and restricted stock awards and units granted by the Board of Directors.   

          The
number of restricted stock awards and units outstanding and the weighted-average grant-date fair value at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011 was
12,449,413 and $54.02 and 14,698,595 and $50.29, respectively. The number of restricted stock awards and units, and the weighted-average grant-date fair value, that were granted, vested
and lapsed during 2011 were 7,973,495 and $46.85, 4,998,410 and $53.94 and 725,903 and $51.18, respectively. The fair market value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2011, 2010 and 2009
was $237 million, $203 million and $81 million, respectively.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011 was $529 million and $508 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value
of options exercised in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $94 million, $77 million and $129 million, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related to all share-based
compensation plans at December 31, 2011 amounted to approximately $242 million which is expected to be recognized over the next three years.   

Total
non-cash compensation expense charged against income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 for share-based plans totaled approximately $383 million, $385 million and
$365 million, respectively, and the tax benefit recognized was approximately $116 million, $119 million and $118 million, respectively. Compensation cost capitalized as
part of inventory is not significant.   

The
fair value of an option granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $6.23, $9.24 and $9.28, respectively. The fair value of an option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

81  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 8   Incentive Stock Program (Continued)    

          The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
option's expected life. The average life of an option is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on
Abbott's stock and historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

    Note 9   Debt and Lines of Credit     

The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31: (   dollars in millions   )   

Principal
payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2011, are $1.0 billion in 2012, $330 million in 2013, $505 million in
2014, $750 million in 2015, $2.0 billion in 2016 and $7.8 billion thereafter.   

          At
December 31, 2011, Abbott's long-term debt rating was AA by Standard   Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Abbott has readily available
financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $6.7 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements of which a $3.0 billion facility expires in October 2012 and a
$3.7 billion facility expires in 2013. Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by Abbott at its option, and commitment fees are not material. Abbott's weighted-average
interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.4% at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and 0.2% at December 31, 2009.   

  82  

Table of Contents    

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions     

On September 8, 2010, Abbott acquired Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions business, a leader in the Indian branded generics market, for $2.2 billion, in cash,
plus additional payments of $400 million annually in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Abbott recorded a $1.6 billion liability for the present value of the additional payments at the
acquisition date. The acquisition was financed with cash. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in the recording of $2.7 billion of deductible acquired intangible assets
and $1.0 billion of deductible goodwill. Acquired intangible assets
consist primarily of trade names, customer relationships and associated rights and are amortized over an average of 19 years.   

          In
February 2010, Abbott acquired Solvay's pharmaceuticals business (Solvay Pharmaceuticals) for approximately $6.1 billion, in cash, plus additional payments of up to EUR
100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Contingent consideration of approximately $290 million was recorded. The acquisition of Solvay
Pharmaceuticals provides Abbott with a large and complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical products and expands Abbott's presence in key global emerging markets. Abbott acquired control of this
business on February 15, 2010 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on that date. Net sales for the acquired operations for
2010 were approximately $3.1 billion. Pretax loss of the acquired operations, including acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses, for 2010 was approximately $395 million. The
acquisition was funded with cash and short-term investments. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition is shown in the table below    (in billions of
dollars)   .   

Goodwill, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  2.2  

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  

4.1  

Acquired in-process research and development, non-deductible  

0.5  

Acquired net tangible assets  

0.7  

Deferred income taxes recorded at acquisition  

(1.1  
  )  

Total allocation of fair value  
     
  $  
  6.4  

Acquired
intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed products and are amortized over 2 to 14 years (average of 11 years). Acquired
in-process research and development projects are accounted for as indefinite lived intangible assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. The net tangible assets acquired consist
primarily of trade accounts receivable of approximately $675 million, inventory of approximately $390 million, property and equipment of approximately $725 million, net of assumed
liabilities, primarily trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other liabilities.   

Had
the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals taken place on January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2009, unaudited pro forma net sales, net earnings and diluted earnings per share
for 2010 and 2009 would have been $35.8 billion and $34.2 billion, $4.6 billion and $5.2 billion and $2.96 and $3.36, respectively. The pro forma information includes
adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and fair value adjustments to acquisition-date inventory as well as acquisition, integration and restructuring expenses. The pro forma
financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations as they would have been had the transaction been effected on the assumed date.   

In
March 2010, Abbott acquired STARLIMS Technologies for approximately $100 million, in cash, net of cash held by STARLIMS, providing Abbott with leading products and expertise to
build its position in laboratory informatics. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets.   

  83  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

          In
April 2010, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of cash held by Facet. The acquisition enhances
Abbott's early- and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including a biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement Abbott's oncology program. A substantial portion of the
fair value of the acquisition has been allocated to acquired in-process research and development that is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or
discontinuation.   

          In
February 2009, Abbott acquired the outstanding shares of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) for approximately $1.4 billion in cash, net of cash held by AMO. Prior to
the acquisition, Abbott held a small investment in AMO. Abbott acquired AMO to take advantage of increasing demand for vision care technologies due to population growth and demographic shifts and
AMO's premier position in its field. Abbott acquired control of this business on February 25, 2009 and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial
statements beginning on that date. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible goodwill of approximately $1.7 billion, non-deductible
definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $900 million and net tangible assets of approximately $400 million. In addition, Abbott assumed $1.5 billion of debt. Acquired
intangible assets consist of established customer relationships, developed technology and trade names and are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average of 15 years). In addition, subsequent
to the acquisition, Abbott repaid substantially all of the acquired debt of AMO.   

          In
October 2009, Abbott acquired 100 percent of Visiogen, Inc. for $400 million, in cash, providing Abbott with a next-generation accommodating
intraocular lens (IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired
in-process research and development of approximately $200 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation,
non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $24 million and goodwill of approximately $200 million.   

In
October 2009, Abbott acquired Evalve, Inc. for $320 million, in cash, plus an additional payment of $90 million to be made upon completion of certain regulatory
milestones. Abbott acquired Evalve to obtain a presence in the growing area of non-surgical treatment for structural heart disease. Including a previous investment in Evalve, Abbott has
acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Evalve. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of this investment was revalued to fair value resulting in recording
$28 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible
assets of approximately $140 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of approximately $220 million which is accounted for as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, goodwill of approximately $100 million and deferred income taxes of
approximately $110 million. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and are being amortized over 11 years.   

          In
January 2009, Abbott acquired Ibis Biosciences, Inc. (Ibis) for $175 million, in cash, to expand Abbott's position in molecular diagnostics for infectious disease.
Including a $40 million investment in Ibis in 2008, Abbott has acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Ibis. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition has been
allocated to goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, and acquired in-process research and development which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory
approval or discontinuation. The investment in Ibis in 2008 resulted in a charge to acquired in-process research and development. In connection with the acquisition, the carrying amount of
this   

  84  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 10   Business Combinations, Technology Acquisitions and Related Transactions (Continued)    

  investment
was revalued to fair value resulting in recording $33 million of income, which is reported as Other (income) expense, net.   

Except
for the acquisition of Solvay Pharmaceuticals, had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

          In
2011, Abbott entered into a collaboration agreement for the joint development and commercialization of second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators resulting in a charge
to acquired in-process research and development of $400 million. In 2010, Abbott entered into an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the U.S., excluding certain Asian
markets, to a product in development for the treatment of chronic kidney disease resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of $238 million. In 2011,
certain milestones were achieved and charges to acquired in-process research and development of $188 million were recorded. Additional payments of approximately $200 million
could be required for the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. In addition, equity interests of approximately $62 million each were acquired in 2011 and 2010. In 2011,
Abbott entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development of
$85 million. Additional payments totaling up to $395 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under the agreement. In
2010, Abbott also entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize a product for the treatment of endometriosis resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and development
of $75 million. Additional payments of approximately $500 million could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.
In 2009, Abbott acquired the global rights to a novel biologic for the treatment of chronic pain for $170 million resulting in a charge to acquired in-process research and
development.   

    Note 11   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

Abbott recorded goodwill of approximately $3.4 billion in 2010 related to the acquisitions of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business, Piramal Healthcare Limited's Healthcare Solutions
business, Facet Biotech and STARLIMS Technologies. Goodwill related to the Solvay, Piramal and Facet acquisitions was allocated to the pharmaceutical products segments. In addition, in 2010, Abbott
paid $250 million to Boston Scientific as a result of the approval to market the    Xience V    drug-eluting stent in Japan, resulting in
an increase in goodwill in the Vascular Products segment. Abbott recorded goodwill of approximately $2.2 billion in 2009 related to the acquisitions of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc.,
Ibis Biosciences, Inc., Visiogen, Inc. and Evalve, Inc. Goodwill of approximately $120 million related to the Ibis acquisition was allocated to the Diagnostic Products
segment and goodwill of approximately $160 million related to the Evalve acquisition was allocated to the Vascular Products segment. Foreign currency translation and other adjustments
(decreased) increased goodwill in 2011, 2010 and 2009 by $(225) million, $(879) million and $997 million, respectively. The amount of goodwill related to reportable segments at
December 31, 2011 was $6.2 billion for the Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment, $3.0 billion for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment, $207 million for
the Nutritional Products segment, $383 million for the Diagnostic Products segment, and $2.6 billion for the Vascular Products segment. There were no significant reductions of goodwill
relating to impairments or disposal of all or a portion of a business.   

  85  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 11   Goodwill and Intangible Assets (Continued)    

          The
gross amount of amortizable intangible assets, primarily product rights and technology was $17.5 billion, $17.3 billion and $10.8 billion as of
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and accumulated amortization was $8.3 billion, $6.5 billion and $5.1 billion as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, were approximately $814 million,
$1.4 billion and $610 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, Abbott recorded impairment charges for certain research and development assets due to
changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for the projects. $125 million related to a non-reportable segment
and $49 million related to the Other categories in Abbott's segment reporting. Discounted cash flow analysis was used to analyze fair value and the charges are included in research and
development expenses. The estimated annual amortization expense for intangible assets recorded at December 31, 2011 is approximately $1.5 billion in 2012, $1.3 billion in 2013,
$1.0 billion in 2014, $800 million in 2015 and $765 million in 2016. Intangible asset amortization is included in Cost of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings.
Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over 2 to 30 years (average 10 years).   

    Note 12   Restructuring Plans     

In 2011 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, Abbott recorded charges of approximately $194 million, $56 million and $114 million,
respectively, reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $76 million in 2011 is classified as Cost of
products sold, $69 million as Research and development and $49 million as Selling, general and administrative. Approximately $56 million in 2010 is classified as Cost of products
sold and $114 million in 2009 as Selling, general and administrative. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in
millions)   

An
additional $25 million, $13 million and $47 million were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for
accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2010, Abbott management approved a restructuring plan primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay's pharmaceuticals business. This plan streamlines operations, improves
efficiencies and reduces costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain Abbott and Solvay commercial
organizations in various countries. Under this plan, Abbott recorded charges to Cost of products sold, Research and   

  86  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    Note 12   Restructuring Plans (Continued)    

  development
and Selling, general and administrative of approximately $99 million, $152 million and $272 million, respectively. The following summarizes the activity for this
restructuring:    (dollars in millions)   

An
additional $102 million and $12 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for additional employee severance and
accelerated depreciation.   

          In
2011 and 2008, Abbott management approved plans to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In
2011 a charge of $28 million was recorded in Cost of products sold. The following summarizes the activity for these restructurings:    (dollars in
millions)   

In
addition, charges of approximately $42 million, $60 million and $54 million were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, primarily for accelerated depreciation and
product transfer costs. Additional charges will be incurred through 2012 as a result of product re-registration timelines required under manufacturing regulations in a number of countries
and product transition timelines.   

    Note 13   Spin-off of Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceuticals Business     

In October 2011, Abbott announced a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies, one in diversified medical products and the other in research-based pharmaceuticals. To
accomplish the separation, Abbott plans to create a new company for its research-based pharmaceuticals business which will include Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment. The transaction
is expected to take the form of a tax-free distribution to Abbott shareholders of the stock of the newly created research-based pharmaceutical company and is expected to be completed by
the end of 2012. Subsequent to the separation, the historical results of the research-based pharmaceuticals business will be presented as discontinued operations.   

  87  

Table of Contents   

Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

Note 14   Quarterly Results (Unaudited)     

    (dollars in millions except per share data)     

(a)    The
sum of the quarters' basic earnings per share for 2011, 2010 and 2009 and diluted earnings per share for 2011 and 2009 do not add to the full year
earnings per share amounts due to rounding.    

88  

Table of Contents    

Management Report on Internal Control 
Over Financial Reporting     

          The management of Abbott Laboratories is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Abbott's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published
financial statements.   

          All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   

          Abbott's
management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, it used the criteria
set forth in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2011, the company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.   

Abbott's
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
This report appears on page 91.   

  Miles
D. White 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  Thomas
C. Freyman 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

Greg
W. Linder 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER   

  February 21,
2012   

  89  

Table of Contents    

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   

          As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2011 the Company changed the year end of its foreign subsidiaries from a November 30 fiscal year end to
a December 31 calendar year end and changed its presentation of comprehensive income.   

          We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control-Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 21, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 21, 2012   

  90  

Table of Contents    

  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

          We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

          We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in     Internal Control   Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2011 and our report dated February 21, 2012 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding
the Company's change to the year end of its foreign subsidiaries and change to its presentation of comprehensive income during 2011.   

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 21, 2012   

  91  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

          None.    

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

    Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.       The Chief Executive Officer, Miles D. White, and the Chief Financial Officer, Thomas
C. Freyman,
evaluated the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that Abbott Laboratories' disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that information Abbott is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
Abbott in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Abbott's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

            Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.       Management's report on Abbott's internal control over
financial reporting is
included on page 89 hereof. The report of Abbott's independent registered public accounting firm related to their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is
included on page 91 hereof.   

            Changes in internal control over financial reporting.       During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, there were no changes in
Abbott's internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's
internal control over financial reporting.    

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  92  

Table of Contents    

    PART III     

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors," "Committees of the Board of Directors,"
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2012 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement. The 2012 Proxy
Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2012. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 22
through 24 hereof.   

          Abbott
has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller. That code is part of
Abbott's code of business conduct which is available free of charge through Abbott's investor relations website (www.abbottinvestor.com). Abbott intends to include on its website (www.abbott.com) any
amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to Abbott's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller that
relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K.    

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2012 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2012.    

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)     Equity Compensation Plan Information   .    

1.    (i)
   Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program   . Benefits under the 1996 Program include stock options
intended to qualify for special tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("incentive stock options"), stock options that do not qualify for that special tax treatment
("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, and foreign qualified benefits. The shares that remain available
for issuance under the 1996 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards
may be satisfied only from treasury shares).   

If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 1996 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards   

93  

Table of Contents   

of
any type authorized under the 1996 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit under the 1996 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or
pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not
again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 1996 Program.    

  In
April 2009, the 1996 Program was replaced by the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program. No further awards will be granted under the 1996 Program.    

  (ii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program.    Benefits under the 2009 Program include stock options that do not qualify for special tax
treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code ("non-qualified stock options"), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards, other share-based awards
(including stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalents and recognition awards), awards to non-employee directors, and foreign benefits. The shares that remain available for issuance
under the 2009 Program may be issued in connection with any one of these benefits and may be either authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares (except that restricted stock awards may be
satisfied only from treasury shares).    

  If
there is a lapse, expiration, termination, forfeiture or cancellation of any benefit granted under the 2009 Program without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder, the shares subject
to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized under the 2009 Program. If shares are issued under any benefit
under the 2009 Program and thereafter are reacquired by Abbott pursuant to rights reserved upon their issuance, or pursuant to the payment of the purchase price of shares under stock options by
delivery of other common shares of Abbott, the shares subject to or reserved for that benefit, or so reacquired, may not again be used for new stock options, rights, or awards of any type authorized
under the 2009 Program.    

  (iii)
   Abbott Laboratories 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees.    Eligible employees of participating non-U.S.
affiliates of Abbott may participate in this plan. An eligible employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of 1% to 10% of eligible compensation (in multiples of one percent) subject to a
limit of US $12,500 during any purchase cycle.    

  Purchase
cycles are generally six months long and usually begin on August 1 and February 1. On the last day of each purchase cycle, Abbott uses participant contributions to acquire
Abbott common shares. The shares acquired come from treasury shares. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the shares on that date or on the first day of that purchase
cycle.    

  (iv)
   Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Plans.    In 2009, in connection with its acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., Abbott assumed
options outstanding under the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended; AMO's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated; the
Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral Plan, as amended and restated; the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock
Plan, as amended; the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan; and the VISX, Incorporated 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan. As of December 31, 2011, 1,859,446 options remained outstanding under
the plans. These options have a weighted average purchase price of $71.68. No further awards will be granted under the plans.   

For
additional information concerning the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program, and the Abbott Laboratories 2009
Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees, see the discussion in Note 8 entitled "Incentive Stock Program" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."   

  94  

Table of Contents   

(b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership   . Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the
heading "Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2012 Proxy Statement. The 2012 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2012.     

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

          The material to be included in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors," "Committees of the Board of
Directors," "Corporate Governance Materials," and "Approval Process for Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2012 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2012.    

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          The material to be included in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on
Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2012 Proxy Statement will be filed
on or about March 15, 2012.   

  95  

Table of Contents    

    PART IV     

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

(a)     Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.   

(1)     Financial Statements:    See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 53
hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:    The required financial statement schedules are found on the pages indicated
below. These schedules should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Abbott Laboratories:    

Abbott Laboratories Financial Statement Schedules

Page No.    

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)  
     
  99  

Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  100  

Individual Financial Statements of businesses acquired by the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05 of
Regulation S-X  

(3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:    The information called for by
this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 101 through 108 of this Form 10-K.

(b)     Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 101 through 108).   
      (c)     Financial Statement Schedule filed (page 99).    
  96  

Table of Contents    

    SIGNATURES     

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

ABBOTT LABORATORIES  

By  
      
    /s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 21, 2012  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott Laboratories on February 21, 2012 in
the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 
and Director of Abbott Laboratories 
(principal executive officer)  
     
   /s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief 
Financial Officer (principal financial officer)  

/s/ GREG W. LINDER 

Greg W. Linder 
Vice President and Controller 
(principal accounting officer)  

/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ SALLY E. BLOUNT, PH.D. 

Sally E. Blount, Ph.D. 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL 

W. James Farrell 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER 

H. Laurance Fuller 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY 

Edward M. Liddy 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

97  

Table of Contents   

/s/ NANCY MCKINSTRY 

Nancy McKinstry 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
     
   /s/ PHEBE N. NOVAKOVIC 

Phebe N. Novakovic 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ WILLIAM A. OSBORN 

William A. Osborn 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  
      
    /s/ SAMUEL C. SCOTT III 

Samuel C. Scott III 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

/s/ GLENN F. TILTON 

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of Abbott Laboratories  

98  

Table of Contents    

    ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010, AND 2009 
(in thousands of dollars)     

Note:
Prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation which includes the provisions and amounts charged off related to product returns.   

  99  

Table of Contents    

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:   

  We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, and have issued our reports thereon dated February 21, 2012, which report relating to the consolidated financial
statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's change to the year
end of its foreign subsidiaries and change to its presentation of comprehensive income during 2011; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included
the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 21, 2012   

  100  

Table of Contents    

    EXHIBIT INDEX 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES 
ANNUAL REPORT 
FORM 10-K 
2011     

          Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

101  

Table of Contents   

102  

Table of Contents   

103  

Table of Contents   

104  

Table of Contents   

105  

Table of Contents   

106  

Table of Contents   

107  

Table of Contents   

          The
2012 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 15, 2012.   

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

Abbott
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois
60064-6400.   

  108  

<EX-10.57>
 2
 a2207147zex-10_57.htm
 EX-10.57

Exhibit 10.57   
     
   Abbott Laboratories   
     
   Description of Base Salary of Named Executive Officers   
     
  Set forth below are the base salaries, effective December 31, 2011 and March 1, 2012, of the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, Laura J. Schumacher, and James V. Mazzo, all of whom were named executive officers in 2011.  
     
  Miles D. White  
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Thomas C. Freyman  
  Executive Vice President, Finance and  
  Chief Financial Officer  

Richard A. Gonzalez  
  Executive Vice President,  
  Pharmaceutical Products Group  

Laura J. Schumacher  
  Executive Vice President,  
  General Counsel and Secretary  

James V. Mazzo  
  Senior Vice President,  
  Abbott Medical Optics  

</EX-10.57>

<EX-12>
 3
 a2207147zex-12.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit 12   
     
   Abbott Laboratories   
   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
  (Unaudited)  
  (dollars in millions)  

NOTE: For the purpose of calculating this ratio, (i) earnings from continuing operations have been calculated by adjusting earnings from continuing operations for taxes on earnings from continuing operations; interest expense; amortization of capitalized interest, net of capitalized interest; noncontrolling interest; and the portion of rentals representative of the interest factor, (ii) Abbott considers one-third of rental expense to be the amount representing return on capital, and (iii) fixed charges comprise total interest expense, including capitalized interest and such portion of rentals.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 a2207147zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   
     
  SUBSIDIARIES OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES  
     
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories.  Abbott Laboratories is not a subsidiary of any other corporation.  Where ownership of a subsidiary is less than 100% by Abbott Laboratories or an Abbott Laboratories  subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of ownership.  

Domestic Subsidiaries        

Incorporation        

Abbott   Administration Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Biologicals, LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Bioresearch Center, Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Biotech Ventures Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Biotherapeutics Corp.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Cardiovascular Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Cardiovascular Systems Inc.       

California       

Abbott   Delaware Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Diabetes Care Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Diabetes Care Sales Corporation       

Delaware       

Abbott   Endocrine Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Endocrinology Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Equity Investments LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Exchange Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Health Products, Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Home Infusion Services of New York, Inc.       

New   York       

Abbott   International LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Investments Holdings Corporation       

Delaware       

Abbott   Laboratories Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Laboratories International Co.       

Illinois       

Abbott   Laboratories Pacific Ltd.       

Illinois       

Abbott   Laboratories Purchasing Company, LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Laboratories Residential Development Fund, Inc.       

Illinois       

Abbott   Laboratories Services Corp.       

Illinois       

Abbott   Management Corporation       

Delaware       

Abbott   Medical Optics Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Mexico LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Molecular Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Nutrition Manufacturing Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Personnel Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Pharmaceutical Corporation       

Delaware       

Abbott   Point of Care Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Products Operations, LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Products US Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Products, Inc.       

Georgia       

Abbott   Resources Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Resources International Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Respiratory LLC       

Delaware       

Abbott   Universal Ltd.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Vascular Inc.       

Delaware       

Abbott   Vascular Solutions Inc.       

Indiana       

Abbott   Ventures Inc.       

Delaware       

Aeropharm   Technology, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   Development, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware       

AMO   Manufacturing USA, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   Nominee Holdings, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   Sales and Service, Inc.       

Delaware       

AMO   Spain Holdings, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   U.K. Holdings, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   US Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware       

AMO   USA Sales Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware       

AMO   USA, LLC       

Delaware       

AMO   WaveFront Sciences, LLC       

Delaware       

Aspen   Acquisition I, Inc.       

Delaware       

AVI   Corp.       

Delaware       

Bioabsorbable   Vascular Solutions, Inc.       

Delaware       

BioDisplay   Technologies, Inc.       

Illinois       

CG   Nutritionals, Inc.       

Delaware       

CMM   Transportation, Inc.       

Delaware       

CynoGen   Inc.       

Delaware       

Evalve   International, Inc.       

Delaware       

Evalve, Inc.       

Delaware       

Fournier   Pharma Corp.       

Delaware       

Fremont   Holding L.L.C.       

Delaware       

Fremont   Management, Inc.       

Delaware       

Ibis   Biosciences, Inc.       

Delaware       

IEP   Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC       

Delaware       

IMTC   Technologies, Inc.       

Delaware       

Innogenetics   Inc.       

Georgia       

Integrated   Surgical Solutions, LLC       

Delaware       

Integrated   Vascular Systems, Inc.       

Delaware       

Knoll   Pharmaceutical Company       

New   Jersey       

Kos   Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       

Delaware       

Murex   Diagnostics, Inc.       

Delaware       

Natural   Supplement Association, Incorporated       

Colorado       

North   Shore Properties, Inc.       

Delaware       

Organics   L.L.C.       

Delaware       

PDD   II, LLC       

Delaware       

PDD,   LLC       

Delaware       

Quest   Vision Technology, Inc.       

California       

Rowell   Laboratories, Inc.       

Minnesota       

S     G Nutritionals, Inc.       

Delaware       

Solartek   Products, Inc.       

Delaware       

Starlims   Corporation       

Florida       

Swan-Meyers, Incorporated       

Indiana       

Tobal   Products Incorporated       

Illinois       

Unimed   Pharmaceuticals, LLC       

Delaware       

Visiogen, Inc.       

Delaware       

Woodside   Biomedical, Inc.       

Delaware       

X   Technologies Inc.       

Delaware       

ZonePerfect   Nutrition Company       

Delaware       

Foreign Subsidiaries        

Incorporation        

Abbott   Products Algerie EURL       

Algeria       

Abbott   Laboratories Argentina Sociedad Anonima       

Argentina       

Murex   Argentina S.A.       

Argentina       

(65       
 
  )%           

AMO   Australia Pty Limited       

Australia       

Abbott   Australasia Pty Ltd       

Australia       

Abbott   Products Pty Ltd       

Australia       

Abbott Products GmbH       

Austria       

Abbott Gesellschaft m.b.H.       

Austria       

Abbott   Bahamas Overseas Businesses Corporation       

Bahamas       

Abbott   Hospitals Limited       

Bahamas       

Abbott   Laboratories (Bangladesh) Limited       

Bangladesh       

Murex   Diagnostics International Inc.       

Barbados       

Abbott   Belgian Investments SPRL       

Belgium       

Abbott   Belgian Pension Fund A.S.B.L.       

Belgium       

Abbott   S.A.       

Belgium       

Abbott   Vascular International BVBA       

Belgium       

Abbott   Biotechnology Ltd.       

Bermuda       

Abbott   Diagnostics International, Ltd.       

Bermuda       

Abbott   Ireland       

Bermuda       

Abbott   Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd.       

Bermuda       

Abbott   Strategic Opportunities Limited       

Bermuda       

Abbott   dru tvo sa ogranicenom odgovorno cu za trgovinu i usluge       

Bosnia       

Abbott Laboratorios do Brasil Ltda.       

Brazil       

Abbott   Products EOOD       

Bulgaria       

Abbott   (Cambodia) LLC       

Cambodia       

Abbott   International Corporation       

Canada       

Abbott   Laboratories, Limited/Laboratoires Abbott, Limitee       

Canada       

Abbott   Point of Care Canada Limited       

Canada       

Abbott   Products Inc.       

Canada       

Experimental     Applied Sciences Canada Inc.       

Canada       

Fournier   Pharma, Inc.       

Canada       

Starlims   Canada, Inc.       

Canada       

Unimed   Canada, Inc.       

Canada       

AMO   Canada Company       

Canada       

AMO   Global Holdings       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.       

AMO   Ireland       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.       

AMO Puerto Rico Manufacturing, Inc.       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.       

VISX       

Cayman   Islands, B.W.I.       

Abbott   Laboratories de Chile Limitada       

Chile       

Abbott   Laboratories de Colombia, S.A.       

Colombia       

Abbott Healthcare Costa Rica, S.A.       

Costa   Rica       

Abbott   Vascular Limitada       

Costa   Rica       

Abbott Laboratories d.o.o       

Croatia       

Abbott   Products d.o.o. for Services       

Croatia       

Abbott   Overseas Subsidiary Holding (Cyprus) Limited       

Cyprus       

Abbott Laboratories, s.r.o.       

Czech   Republic       

Abbott   Products ApS       

Denmark       

AMO   Denmark ApS       

Denmark       

Abbott   Laboratories A/S       

Denmark       

Abbott Laboratorios del Ecuador Cia.   Ltda.       

Ecuador       

Abbott   Healthcare LLC       

Egypt       

Abbott   Limited Egypt LLC       

Egypt       

Abbott   Products Egypt LLC       

Egypt       

Abbott   Products Limited       

Egypt       

Abbott,   S.A. de C.V.       

El   Salvador       

Abbott   Products Oy       

Finland       

Abbott   Oy       

Finland       

Abbott France Instruments S.A.S.       

France       

Abbott   France S.A.S.       

France       

AMO   France S.A.S.       

France       

Laboratories Fournier SA       

France       

Fournier Industrie et Sante SAS       

France       

Abbott   Products SAS       

France       

Vivasol   SNC       

France       

Abbott   Healthcare SAS       

France       

Abbott   Arzneimittel GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Biotechnology Deutschland GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Deutschland GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Diagnostics GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   GmbH   Co. KG       

Germany       

Abbott   Holding GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Management GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Products GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Vascular Deutschland GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott Vascular Instruments Deutschland GmbH       

Germany       

Abbott   Asia (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott   Asia Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott   Holding (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott   Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar       

Abbott   Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.       

Greece       

Abbott   Grenada Limited       

Grenada       

Abbott   Laboratorios, S.A.       

Guatemala       

AMO   Germany GmbH       

Hamburg,   Germany       

AMO   Asia Limited       

Hong   Kong       

Abbott   Laboratories Limited       

Hong   Kong       

Starlims   Asia Pacific Limited       

Hong   Kong       

Abbott   Laboratories (Hungary) Health Products and Medical Equipment Trading and   Servicing Limited Liability Company       

Hungary       

Abbott   Products KFT       

Hungary       

Abbott   Healthcare Private Limited       

India       

Abbott   India Limited       

India       

Abbott   Medical Optics Private Limited       

India       

Abbott Truecare Pharma Private Limited       

India       

Abind   Healthcare Pvt. Ltd.       

India       

PT.   Abbott Indonesia       

Indonesia       

(99       
 
  )%           

PT.   Abbott Products Indonesia       

Indonesia       

AMO   International Holdings       

Ireland       

AMO   Ireland Export Ltd.       

Ireland       

AMO   Ireland Finance       

Ireland       

AMO   Regional Holdings       

Ireland       

Abbott   Laboratories Vascular Enterprises Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott   Laboratories, Ireland, Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott   Mature Products International Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott   Mature Products Management Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott   Nutrition Limited       

Ireland       

Abbott   Products       

Ireland       

Abbott   Vascular Devices Ireland Limited       

Ireland       

Allergan   Trading International Limited       

Ireland       

BiodivYsio   Limited       

Ireland       

Fournier   Laboratories Ireland Ltd       

Ireland       

Salviac   Limited       

Ireland       

L.I.M.S.   Management Systems       

Israel       

STARLIMS   Technologies Ltd.       

Israel       

Scorpio   Designated Corporation Ltd.       

Israel       

L.I.M.S.   Holding 2000 Ltd.       

Israel       

Abbott   Medical Laboratories Ltd.       

Israel       

Abbott AVI s.r.l.       

Italy       

Abbott   S.r.l.       

Italy       

Abbott   Vascular Knoll-Ravizza S.p.A       

Italy       

Abbott   Products S.p.A       

Italy       

Autonomous   Employee Welfare Fund for Abbott S.p.A. Dirigenti       

Italy       

AMO   Italy       

Italy       

Abbott   West Indies Limited       

Jamaica       

(51       
 
  )%           

AMO   Japan K.K.       

Japan       

Abbott   Japan Co., Ltd.       

Japan       

Abbott   Korea Limited       

Korea,   South       

Abbott   Laboratories Baltics       

Latvia       

Abbott   Middle East S.A.R.L.       

Lebanon       

UAB    Abbott Laboratories        

Lithuania       

Abbott   Asia (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Healthcare Luxembourg S.ar.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott International Luxembourg S.a.r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Investments Luxembourg S. .r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Overseas Luxembourg S.a.r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Products Luxembourg S.a.r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Holding Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Subsidiary (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg S.C.S.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   South Africa Luxembourg S.a.r.l.       

Luxembourg       

Abbott   Laboratories (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.       

Malaysia       

AMO   Malta       

Malta       

Abbott Laboratories de M xico, S.A. de C.V       

Mexico       

Abbott   Laboratories (Mozambique), Limitada       

Mozambique       

AMO   Groningen       

Netherlands       

Abbott   B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Biotechnology Netherlands B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Healthcare B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Knoll Investments B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Laboratories B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Logistics B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Nederland C.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott PR Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Products B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Research B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott Vascular Devices Holland B.V.       

Netherlands       

EAS   International B.V.       

Netherlands       

IMTC   Finance B.V.       

Netherlands       

IMTC   Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands       

STARLIMS   Netherlands B.V.       

Netherlands       

Abbott   Laboratories NZ Limited       

New   Zealand       

Abbott   Medical Optics Norway AS       

Norway       

Abbott   Products AS       

Norway       

Abbott   Norge AS       

Norway       

Abbott   Products Canada Inc.       

Ontario,   Canada       

Abbott   Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited       

Pakistan       

Abbott   Laboratories, C.A.       

Panama       

Abbott   Overseas, S.A.       

Panama       

AMO   (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

AMO   (Shanghai) Medical Devices Trading Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott   (Guangzhou) Nutritionals Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott   (Jiaxing) Nutrition Co. Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott   Laboratories Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Abbott   Medical Devices Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

Shanghai   Abbott Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China       

(75       
 
  )%           

Abbott   Laboratorios S.A.       

Peru       

Abbott   Laboratories (Philippines)       

Philippines       

Union-Madison   Realty Company, Inc.       

Philippines       

(40       
 
  )%           

Abbott   Products (Philippines) Inc.       

Philippines       

Abbott   Laboratories Poland Sp z.o.o.       

Poland       

Abbott   Products Sp. z o.o.       

Poland       

Fournier Polska Sp. z.o.o.       

Poland       

Abbott   Laboratorios, Limitada       

Portugal       

Abbottfarma - Promocao de Produtos   Farmaceuticos, Lda       

Portugal       

MediSense - Promocao de Produtos   Farmaceuticos, Lda       

Portugal       

Premier - Promocao de Produtos Farmaceuticos,   Lda       

Portugal       

Abbott   Laboratories (Puerto Rico) Incorporated       

Puerto   Rico       

Knoll   LLC       

Puerto   Rico       

Abbott   Products Romania S.R.L.       

Romania       

Limited   liability company  Abbott Laboratories        

Russia       

Abbott   Products Limited Liability Company       

Russia       

AMO   Singapore Pte. Limited       

Singapore       

Abbott Laboratories (Singapore) Private Limited       

Singapore       

Abbott   Manufacturing Singapore Private Limited       

Singapore       

Starlims   (SEA) PTE. LTD.       

Singapore       

Abbott Laboratories Slovakia s.r.o.       

Slovakia       

Abbott Laboratories druzba za farmacijo in   diagnostiko d.o.o.       

Slovenia       

Abbott   Laboratories Diagnostics South Africa       

South   Africa       

Abbott   Laboratories South Africa (Pty) Ltd.       

South   Africa       

Experimental     Applied Sciences Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa       

Knoll   Pharmaceuticals South Africa (Proprietary) Limited       

South   Africa       

Murex   Biotech South Africa       

South   Africa       

Abbott   Medical Optics Spain, S.L.       

Spain       

STARLIMS   Ib rica, S.A.       

Spain       

AMO   Manufacturing Spain, S.L.       

Spain       

Abbott   Cientifica, S.A.       

Spain       

Abbott   Laboratories, S.A.       

Spain       

Bioresearch   Espana, S.A.       

Spain       

Abbott   Products AB       

Sweden       

Abbott   Medical Optics Norden AB       

Sweden       

Abbott   Scandinavia AB       

Sweden       

Advanced   Medical Optics Uppsala AB       

Sweden       

AMO   Switzerland GmbH       

Switzerland       

Abbott   AG       

Switzerland       

Abbott   Finance Company SA       

Switzerland       

Abbott   Laboratories SA       

Switzerland       

Abbott   Products Operations AG       

Switzerland       

Abbott   Service AG       

Switzerland       

Knoll   Bioresearch AG       

Switzerland       

Abbott   Fund Tanzania Limited       

Tanzania       

Abbott   Laboratories Tanzania Limited       

Tanzania       

Abbott   Laboratories Ltd.       

Thailand       

Abbott   Laboratuarlari Ithalat Ihracat Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi       

Turkey       

Limited   Liability Company   Abbott Ukraine        

Ukraine       

Abbott   Healthcare Products       

United   kingdom       

British   Colloids       

United   kingdom       

Mansbridge   Pharmaceuticals       

United   kingdom       

AMO   United Kingdom Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   (UK) Finance Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   (UK) Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Asia Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Asia Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Australasia Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Capital India Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Diabetes Care Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Equity Holdings Unlimited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Iberian Investments (2) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Iberian Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Knoll Investments B.V.       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Laboratories Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Laboratories Trustee Company Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Vascular Devices (2) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Vascular Devices Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Experimental   and Applied Sciences UK Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Fournier   Pharmaceuticals Ltd.       

United   Kingdom       

IMTC   Holdings (U.K.) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Knoll   (UK) Investments Unlimited       

United   Kingdom       

Murex   Biotech (UK) Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Murex   Biotech Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Starlims   Europe Limited       

United   Kingdom       

Abbott   Laboratories Uruguay S.A.       

Uruguay       

Lirdow   S.A       

Uruguay       

Abbott   Laboratories C.A.           .       

Venezuela       

Abbott   Trading Company, Inc.       

Virgin   Islands       

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a2207147zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-158782 on Form S-8
for the Abbott Laboratories 2009 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-09071, 333-43381, 333-69547, 333-93253,
333-52768, 333-74228, 333-102178, 333-109250, 333-124850, and 333-158782 on Form S-8 for the Abbott
Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program; Registration Statement Nos. 333-74220, 333-102179, 333-124851, 333-153200, and 333-169886
on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement Nos. 33-26685, 33-50452, 33-51585,
33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511, 333-43383, 333-69579, 333-93257, 333-74224, 333-102180,
333-109253, 333-124849, 333-141116, 333-153198, and 333-169888 on Form S-8 for the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement
Program and Trusts; Registration Statement No. 333-158124 on Form S-8 for the Amended and Restated Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2002 Incentive
Compensation Plan, as amended, the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, the Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, the VISX, Incorporated
2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 2000 Stock Plan, the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Director Option and Stock Deferral
Plan, as amended and restated, and the VISX, Incorporated 1995 Stock Plan, as amended; and Registration Statement Nos. 333-109132, 333-132104,
333-157290, and 333-158128 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 21, 2012, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule
of Abbott Laboratories and subsidiaries (which report relating to the financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's change to the
year end of its foreign subsidiaries and change to its presentation of comprehensive income during 2011) and the effectiveness of Abbott Laboratories' internal control over financial reporting
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 21, 2012   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a2207147zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Miles D. White, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 21, 2012  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a2207147zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))     

  I,
Thomas C. Freyman, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Abbott Laboratories;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Abbott as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for Abbott and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to Abbott, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of Abbott's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in Abbott's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during Abbott's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Abbott's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    Abbott's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to Abbott's
auditors and the audit committee of Abbott's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 21, 2012  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a2207147zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

    Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Miles D. White, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MILES D. WHITE 

Miles D. White, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 21, 2012  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a2207147zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

    Certification Pursuant To 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant To 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          In connection with the Annual Report of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Thomas C. Freyman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ THOMAS C. FREYMAN 

Thomas C. Freyman, 
Executive Vice President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 21, 2012  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Abbott Laboratories and will be retained by Abbott Laboratories and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 abt-20111231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 abt-20111231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 abt-20111231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 abt-20111231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 abt-20111231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 abt-20111231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

