<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090225_10-K_edgar_data_313616_0001193125-09-037468_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2812042</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1025044</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>13598</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1486986</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>111</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>23</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-037468.hdr.sgml : 20090225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090225164918
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-037468
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		25
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DANAHER CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000313616
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY, AND CONTROL [3823]
		IRS NUMBER:				591995548
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08089
		FILM NUMBER:		09634393

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2099 PENNSYLVANIA AVE N.W., 12TH FLOOR
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20006
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2028280850

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2099 PENNSYLVANIA AVE. N.W., 12TH FLOOR
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20006

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DMG INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850221

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UbM2I9ZaT2mFFertD05rj2Mt3Q/ZEaLie8Pt948BpJn0DEYwEJ7UxiNQbgbIZkBU
 m09bSh3UXj5R7rXm5kKlWg==

 0001193125-09-037468.txt : 20090225

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
       Washington, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K                  (Mark One)    
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008        OR        
     For the transition period from              to
                    Commission File Number: 1-8089                  DANAHER CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                 
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 202-828-0850                  Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of Each Class    
     
     Name of Each Exchange On Which Registered     
 
   Common Stock $.01 par value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        NONE        (Title of Class)
                Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K     .      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer
or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act)    Yes                 No           As of February 12, 2009, the number of shares of Registrant s common stock outstanding was 318,701,106. The aggregate market value of common shares held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant on June 27, 2008 was $19.3 billion, based upon the closing price of the Registrant s common shares as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on such date.       EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 104        DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the Registrant s
proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant s fiscal year end. With the exception of the sections of the 2009 Proxy Statement specifically incorporated
herein by reference, the 2009 Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K.               

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        

PAGE    
 
   PART I    

Item 1.  
     
   Business   
      
  3   

Item 1A.  
     
   Risk Factors   
      
  15   

Item 1B.  
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  23   

Item 2.  
     
   Properties   
      
  23   

Item 3.  
     
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  24   

Item 4.  
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  24   

PART II    

Item 5.  
     
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  26   

Item 6.  
     
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  27   

Item 7.  
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  28   

Item 7A.  
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  61   

Item 8.  
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  62   

Item 9.  
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  102   

Item 9A.  
     
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  102   

Item 9B.  
     
   Other Information   
      
  102   

PART III    

Item 10.  
     
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  103   

Item 11.  
     
   Executive Compensation   
      
  103   

Item 12.  
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  103   

Item 13.  
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  103   

Item 14.  
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  103   

PART IV    

Item 15.  
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  103   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

    INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS       Certain information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, written statements or other documents filed with or furnished by us to the SEC, in our press releases or in our communications and
discussions through webcasts, conference calls and other presentations, may be deemed to be  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements other than statements of historical fact are
statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including statements regarding: projections of revenue, profit, profit margins, expenses and cost-reduction activities, our effective tax rate, our tax provision and changes to our tax
provision, tax audits, cash flows, pension and benefit obligations and funding requirements, our liquidity position or other financial measures; plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including statements relating to
anticipated operating performance, new product and service developments, purchase commitments, potential acquisitions and synergies, potential public offerings of securities, our stock repurchase program and executive compensation; growth and other
trends in markets we sell into; future economic conditions or performance; the impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements; the outcome of outstanding claims, legal proceedings or other contingent liabilities; assumptions underlying any of the
foregoing; and any other statements that address activities, events or developments that Danaher Corporation ( Danaher,   we,   us,   our ) intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur
in the future. Forward-looking statements may be characterized by terminology such as  believe,   anticipate,   should,   would,   intend,   plan,   will,   expects, 
 estimates,   projects,   positioned,   strategy,  and similar expressions. These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and perception of
historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and
uncertainties set forth under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  in this Annual Report.      Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ materially from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the report, statement, document, press
release, webcast, call or other presentation in which they are made. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.        
 PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS          General       We derive our sales from the design, manufacture and marketing of professional, medical, industrial, commercial and consumer products, which are typically characterized
by strong brand names, proprietary technology and major market positions. Our business consists of four segments: Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies, and Tools   Components.      We strive to create shareholder value through:       

delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for our products and services;

upper quartile financial performance compared to our peer companies; and          

upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to our peer companies.         To accomplish these goals, we use a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM ( DBS ), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality,
delivery, cost and innovation. Within the DBS framework, we pursue a number of ongoing strategic initiatives intended to improve our performance, including initiatives relating to manufacturing improvement, idea generation, product development and
commercialization and global sourcing of materials and services. To further these objectives we also acquire businesses that either strategically fit within our existing business portfolio or expand our portfolio into a new and attractive business
area. We believe that many acquisition opportunities remain available within our target markets. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and effectively integrated can affect our overall growth and operating results. We also
continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Danaher Corporation, originally DMG, Inc., was organized in 1969 as a Massachusetts real estate investment trust. In 1978
it was reorganized as a Florida corporation under the name Diversified Mortgage Investors, Inc. ( DMI ) which in a second reorganization in 1980 became a subsidiary of a newly created holding company named DMG, Inc. We adopted the name
Danaher in 1984 and were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation following the 1986 annual meeting of our shareholders.       Operating Segments
      The table below describes the percentage of our total annual revenues attributable to each of our four segments over each of the last three fiscal
years:       
    Sales in 2008 by geographic destination were: North America, 50% (including 47% in the U.S.); Europe, 31%;
Asia/Australia, 14%; and other regions, 5%. For additional information regarding our segments and sales by geography, please refer to Note 17 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.       PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION       Businesses in our Professional
Instrumentation segment offer professional and technical customers various products and services that are used to enable or enhance the performance of their work. The Professional Instrumentation segment encompasses two strategic lines of business:
environmental and test and measurement. Sales for this segment in 2008 by geographic destination were: North America, 46%; Europe, 29%; Asia/Australia, 19%; and other regions, 6%.       Environmental . The environmental businesses serve two main markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. We entered the water quality sector in 1996 through the acquisition of American Sigma and have
enhanced our geographical coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Dr. Lange in 1998, Hach Company in 1999, Viridor Instrumentation in 2002, Trojan Technologies Inc. in 2004 and
ChemTreat, Inc. in 2007. Today, we are a worldwide leader in the water quality sector. Our water quality operations design, manufacture and market:       

a wide range of analytical instruments, related consumables, and associated services that detect and measure chemical, physical, and microbiological parameters in
drinking water, wastewater, groundwater, ocean bodies and ultrapure water;          

ultraviolet disinfection systems; and          

industrial water treatment solutions, including chemical treatment solutions and analytical services intended to address corrosion, scaling and biological growth
problems in boiler, cooling water and industrial waste water applications.         Typical users of our analytical instruments, related
consumables and associated services, and our ultraviolet disinfection systems, include professionals in municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment plants, industrial process water and wastewater treatment facilities, third-party testing
laboratories and environmental field operations. Typical users of our industrial water treatment solutions include professionals in industrial plants in a wide range of industries. Customers in these industries choose suppliers based on a number of
factors including the customer s existing supplier relationships, product performance and ease of use, the comprehensiveness of the supplier s product offering and the other factors described under   Competition.  Our water
quality business provides products under a variety of well-known brands, including HACH, HACH/LANGE, TROJAN TECHNOLOGIES, CHEMTREAT and SEA BIRD. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, and Asia. Sales are made through our
direct sales personnel, independent representatives, independent distributors and e-commerce.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   We have participated in the retail/commercial petroleum market since the mid-1980s through our Veeder-Root business, and
have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through various acquisitions including the acquisitions of Red Jacket in 2001, Gilbarco in 2002 and Autotank Ltd. in 2008. Today, we are a leading worldwide provider of products
and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market. Through the Gilbarco Veeder-Root business, we design, manufacture, and market a wide range of retail/commercial petroleum products and services, including:       

environmental monitoring and leak detection systems;          

vapor recovery equipment;          

fuel dispensers;          

point-of-sale and merchandising systems;          

submersible turbine pumps; and          

remote monitoring and outsourced fuel management services, including compliance services, fuel system maintenance, and inventory planning and supply chain support.
        Typical users of these products include independent and company-owned retail petroleum stations, high-volume retailers, convenience
stores, and commercial vehicle fleets. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors including product features, performance and functionality, the supplier s geographical coverage and the other factors described
under   Competition.  We market our retail/commercial petroleum products under a variety of brands, including GILBARCO, VEEDER-ROOT, RED JACKET and GILBARCO AUTOTANK. Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia
and South America. Sales are generally made through independent distributors and our direct sales personnel.       Test and Measurement . Our test and
measurement business was created in 1998 through the acquisition of Fluke Corporation, and has since been supplemented by the acquisitions of a number of additional test and measurement businesses. We doubled the size of the test and measurement
business with the acquisition of Tektronix, Inc. in November 2007. Our test and measurement business consists of four primary businesses.      The Fluke
businesses design, manufacture, and market a variety of compact professional test tools, as well as calibration equipment, for electrical, industrial, electronic, and calibration applications. These test products measure voltage, current,
resistance, power quality, frequency, pressure, temperature and air quality. Typical users of these products include electrical engineers, electricians, electronic technicians, medical technicians, and industrial maintenance professionals. Products
in this business are marketed under a variety of brands, including FLUKE, RAYTEK, FLUKE BIOMEDICAL and AMPROBE. Sales in the Fluke business are generally made through independent distributors as well as direct sales personnel.      The Fluke Networks business provides software and hardware products used for testing, monitoring and analyzing local and wide area ( enterprise ) networks and
the fiber and copper infrastructure of those networks. Typical users of these products include computer network engineers and technicians. Products in this business are primarily marketed under the FLUKE NETWORKS brand. Sales in the Fluke Networks
business are generally made through direct sales personnel as well as independent distributors.      The Tektronix Instruments business offers general purpose
test products as well as a variety of video test, measurement and monitoring products. Tektronix s general purpose products, including oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, signal sources and spectrum analyzers, are used to capture, display and
analyze streams of electrical data. Typical users include research and development engineers who use these products to design, de-bug and manufacture electronic components, subassemblies and end-products in a wide variety of industries, including
the communications, computer, consumer electronics, education, military/aerospace and semiconductor industries. Tektronix s video test products include waveform monitors, video signal generators, compressed digital video test products and other
test and measurement equipment used to help ensure delivery of the best possible video experience to the viewer. Typical users of these products include video equipment manufacturers, content developers and traditional television broadcasters.
Products in this business are marketed under the TEKTRONIX and MAXTEK brands. Sales in the Tektronix Instruments business are generally made through direct sales personnel as well as independent distributors and resellers.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

   The Tektronix Communications business offers network management solutions, network diagnostic equipment and related
support services for both fixed and mobile telecommunications networks. Network management tools continuously manage network performance and help optimize the service performance of the communications network. Network diagnostic equipment is used to
test and monitor telecommunications networks. Typical users of these products include telecommunication network operators and technicians. Products in this business are marketed under the TEKTRONIX brand. Sales in the Tektronix Communications
business are generally made through direct sales personnel as well as independent distributors and resellers.      Test and measurement business manufacturing
facilities are located in North America, Europe, and Asia. Our test and measurement businesses are leaders in their served market segments. The test and measurement industry continues to be competitive, both in the United States and abroad. We face
competition from companies who compete with us in multiple product categories and from companies who compete with us in specialized areas of test and measurement. Competition in the Fluke businesses is based on a number of factors, including the
performance, ruggedness, ease of use, ergonomics and aesthetics of the product and the other factors described under   Competition.  Competition in the Tektronix businesses is also based on a number of factors, including product
performance, technology and product availability as well as the other factors described under   Competition.        MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES  
     Our Medical Technologies segment consists of businesses that offer research and clinical medical professionals various products and services that are used
in connection with the performance of their work. Sales for this segment in 2008 by geographic destination were: Europe, 41%; North America, 39%; Asia/Australia, 15%; and other regions, 5%.      We entered the medical technologies line of business in 2004 through the acquisitions of Kaltenbach   Voigt GmbH   Co KG (KaVo), Gendex, and Radiometer
A/S. We have subsequently added to the medical technologies business through various acquisitions, most notably the acquisitions of Leica Microsystems in 2005 and Sybron Dental Specialties and Vision Systems Limited in 2006. The medical technologies
businesses serve four main markets: dental, acute care, pathology and life sciences research.       Dental . We are a leading worldwide provider of dental
products. Through our dental products businesses we design, manufacture and market a variety of products used primarily in the dental field, including:       

impression, bonding and restorative materials;          

endodontic systems and related consumables;          

infection control products;          

orthodontic bracket systems and lab products;          

implant systems;          

air and electric handpieces;          

treatment units; and          

digital imaging and other visualization and magnification systems.         Typical users of these products include dentists, orthodontists, endodontists, oral surgeons, dental technicians, and other oral health professionals. Dental professionals choose dental products based on a number of
factors, including product performance, the product s capacity to enhance productivity and the other factors described under   Competition.  Our dental products are marketed primarily under the KAVO, GENDEX, IMAGING SCIENCES
INTERNATIONAL, PELTON   CRANE, MARUS, DEXIS, ORMCO, KERR, SYBRON ENDO, SYBRON IMPLANT SOLUTIONS, TOTAL CARE, ORASCOPTIC and PENTRON brands. Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, North America and South America. Sales are generally
made through independent distributors, with the exception of orthodontic, implants and endodontic products which are generally sold directly to the end user.       Acute Care . Our acute care diagnostics business was created in 2004 through the acquisition of Radiometer and has since been supplemented by additional acquisitions. Our acute care diagnostics business is a leading worldwide provider
of blood gas and immunochemistry instruments and related consumables and services. Sold under the  
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

RADIOMETER brand, these instruments are used to rapidly measure critical immunochemistry parameters including blood gases and diagnostic protein levels.
Typical users of Radiometer products include hospital central laboratories, intensive care units, hospital operating rooms, and hospital emergency rooms. Customers in this industry select products based on a number of factors, including the accuracy
and speed of the product, the scope of tests that can be performed, the product s ability to enhance productivity and the other factors described under   Competition.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe and North
America, and sales are made primarily through our direct sales personnel and through distributors in some countries.       Pathology Diagnostics . Our
pathology diagnostics business was created in 2005 through the acquisition of Leica Microsystems and has been expanded through subsequent acquisitions, including Vision Systems in 2006 and Surgipath Medical Industries, Inc. and CoreTech in 2008. Our
pathology diagnostics business is a leading global provider of instrumentation and related consumables used throughout the workflow of a pathology laboratory. Our pathology diagnostics products include:       

slide barcoding devices;          

tissue embedding, processing and slicing (microtomes) instruments and related consumables;          

chemical and immuno-staining instruments; and          

protein and DNA detection chemistries.         Typical
users of our pathology diagnostic products include pathologists, lab managers and researchers. Customers in this industry select products based on a number of factors, including operational reliability, the product s ability to produce
consistent samples and the breadth of the offered reagent portfolio, as well as the other factors described under   Competition.  We generally market our products under the LEICA BIOSYSTEMS and SURGIPATH brands. Manufacturing
facilities are located in Europe and Australia. The businesses sell to customers through direct sales personnel.       Life Sciences Instrumentation . Our
life sciences instrumentation business was created in 2005 through the acquisition of Leica Microsystems and has been expanded through subsequent acquisitions. Our Leica business is a leading global provider of professional microscopes designed to
manipulate, preserve and capture images of, and enhance the user s visualization of, microscopic structures. Our life sciences products include:       

laser scanning (confocal) microscopes;          

compound microscopes and related equipment;          

surgical and other stereo microscopes; and          

specimen preparation products for electron microscopy.         Typical users of our products include research, medical and surgical professionals operating in research and pathology laboratories, academic settings and surgical theaters. Customers in this industry select products based on a number of
factors, including product performance and ergonomics, the product s capacity to enhance productivity, and the other factors described under   Competition.  We generally market our products under the LEICA MICROSYSTEMS brand.
Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, Australia, Asia and the United States. The businesses sell to customers through a combination of our direct sales personnel, independent representatives and independent distributors.       INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES       Businesses in our Industrial Technologies
segment manufacture products and sub-systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end-products. Many
of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. Our Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic lines of business,
product identification and motion, and two focused niche businesses, aerospace and defense, and sensors and controls. Sales for this segment in 2008 by geographic destination were: North America, 52%; Europe, 34%; Asia/Australia, 10%; and other
regions, 4%.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Product Identification . We entered the product identification market through the acquisition of Videojet in 2002,
and have expanded our product and geographic coverage through various subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Willett International Limited and Accu-Sort Systems Inc. in 2003 and Linx Printing Technologies PLC in January 2005. We are
a leader in our served product identification market segments. Our businesses design, manufacture, and market a variety of equipment used to print and read bar codes, date codes, lot codes, and other information on primary and secondary packaging.
Typical users of these products include food and beverage manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, retailers, package and parcel delivery companies, the United States Postal Service and commercial printing and mailing operations. Customers in
this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including printer speed and accuracy, equipment uptime and reliable operation without interruption, ease of maintenance, service coverage and the other factors described under
  Competition.  Our product identification products are marketed under a variety of brands, including VIDEOJET, ACCU-SORT, WILLETT, ZIPHER, ALLTEC and LINX. Manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Europe, South
America, and Asia. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors.       Motion . We entered the motion control
industry through the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Company in 1998, and have subsequently expanded our product and geographic breadth with additional acquisitions, including the acquisitions of American Precision Industries, Kollmorgen
Corporation and the motion businesses of Warner Electric Company in 2000, and Thomson Industries in 2002. We are currently one of the leading worldwide providers of precision motion control equipment. Our businesses provide a wide range of products
including:       

standard and custom motors;          

drives;          

controls; and          

mechanical components (such as ball screws, linear bearings, clutches/brakes, and linear actuators).         These products are sold in various precision motion markets such as the markets for packaging equipment, medical equipment, robotics, circuit board assembly equipment,
elevators and electric vehicles (such as lift trucks). Customers are typically systems integrators who use our products in production and packaging lines and OEMs that integrate our products into their machines and systems. Customers in this
industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including the comprehensiveness of the supplier s product offering, the geographical coverage offered by the supplier and the other factors described under   Competition. 
Our motion products are marketed under a variety of brands, including KOLLMORGEN, THOMSON, DOVER and PORTESCAP. Manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. Sales are generally made through our direct
sales personnel and independent distributors.       Aerospace and Defense . Our aerospace and defense business designs, manufactures, and markets a
variety of aircraft and defense equipment, including:       

smoke detection and fire suppression systems;          

energetic material systems;          

electronic security systems;          

linear actuators;          

electrical power generation systems; and          

submarine periscopes and related sensors.         These
product lines came principally from the acquisitions of Pacific Scientific in 1998 and Kollmorgen in 2000 and have been supplemented by several subsequent acquisitions. Typical users of these products include commercial and business aircraft
manufacturers as well as defense systems integrators and prime contractors. Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including the supplier s experience with the particular technology or application in the
aerospace and defense industry, product reliability and the other factors described under   Competition.  Our aerospace and defense products are marketed under a variety of brands, including the PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC, SUNBANK,
SECURAPLANE, KOLLMORGEN ELECTRO-OPTICAL, ARTUS, CALZONI and OECO brands. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

    Sensors   Controls . Our sensors   controls products include instruments that measure and control
discrete manufacturing variables such as temperature, position, quantity, level, flow, and time. Users of these products span a wide variety of manufacturing markets. Certain businesses included in this group also make and sell instruments, controls
and monitoring systems used by the electric utility industry to monitor their transmission and distribution systems. These products are marketed under a variety of brands, including DYNAPAR, HENGSTLER, PARTLOW, PREDYNE, WEST, NAMCO, GEMS SENSORS,
SETRA, QUALITROL and HATHAWAY. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors.      Manufacturing facilities of our
Industrial Technologies focused niche businesses are located in the United States, Latin America, Europe, and Asia.       TOOLS   COMPONENTS  
     Our Tools   Components segment encompasses one strategic line of business, mechanics  hand tools, and four focused niche businesses: Delta
Consolidated Industries, Hennessy Industries, Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company and Jacobs Vehicle Systems. Sales for this segment in 2008 by geographic destination were: North America, 85%; Asia/Australia, 8%; Europe, 5%; and other regions, 2%.
         Mechanics  Hand Tools . The mechanics  hand tools business consists of several companies that do business as the Danaher Tool
Group ( DTG ), and Matco Tools ( Matco ). DTG is one of the largest worldwide producers of general purpose mechanics  hand tools, primarily ratchets, sockets, and wrenches, and specialized automotive service tools for the
professional and  do-it-yourself  markets. DTG has been the principal manufacturer of Sears Holdings Corporation s CRAFTSMAN line of mechanics  hand tools for over 65 years. Matco manufactures and distributes professional tools,
toolboxes and automotive equipment through independent mobile distributors, who sell primarily to professional mechanics under the MATCO brand. Professional and do-it-yourself mechanics typically select tools based on quality, brand, price, relevant
innovative features and the other factors described under   Competition.       We market tool products under our own brand names and also
private-label products for certain customers. The hand tools that we sell into the industrial and consumer markets are branded under the ARMSTRONG, ALLEN, GEARWRENCH and SATA names, while service tools for the automotive markets are branded under
the K-D TOOLS name. Typical users of DTG products include professional automotive and industrial mechanics as well as  do-it-yourself  consumers. Manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Asia. Sales are generally made
through independent distributors and retailers.       Delta Consolidated Industries . Delta is a leading manufacturer of automotive truckboxes and
industrial gang boxes, which it sells primarily under the DELTA and JOBOX brands. These products are used by both commercial users, such as contractors, and individual consumers. Sales are generally made through independent distributors and
retailers.       Hennessy Industries . Hennessy is a leading North American full-line wheel service equipment manufacturer, providing brake lathes,
vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under the AMMCO, BADA, and COATS brands. Typical users of these products are automotive tire and repair shops. Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel, independent
distributors, retailers, and original equipment manufacturers.       Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company . Jacobs designs, manufactures, and markets chucks
and precision tool and work holding devices, primarily for the portable power tool industry, under the JACOBS brand. Founded by the inventor of the three-jaw drill chuck, Jacobs maintains a worldwide leadership position in drill chucks. Customers
are primarily major manufacturers of portable power tools, and sales are typically made through our direct sales personnel.       Jacobs Vehicle Systems
( JVS ) . JVS is a leading worldwide supplier of supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles, selling JAKE BRAKE brand engine retarders for class 6 through 8 vehicles and bleeder and exhaust brakes for class 2 through 7
vehicles. Customers are primarily major manufacturers of class 2 through class 8 vehicles, and sales are typically made through our direct sales personnel.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Manufacturing facilities of our Tools   Components focused niche businesses are located in the United States and
Asia.      ************************************      The following discussions of  Materials, Intellectual Property, Competition, Seasonal Nature of Business, Backlog, Working Capital, Employee Relations, Research and Development, Government Contracts, Regulatory Matters, International
Operations  and  Major Customers  include information common to all of our segments.       Materials       Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, plastics and other
petroleum-based products. Prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. No single supplier is material, although for some
of the components that we use that require particular specifications there may be a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components. We utilize a number of techniques, including the use of alternative materials and qualification
of multiple sources of supply, to address potential disruption in our supply chain. There have been no raw material shortages that have had a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, although over the last three years the prices of raw
materials have been volatile and for several types of raw materials prices increased substantially in 2007 and 2008 before declining late in 2008. For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations,
please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Intellectual Property       We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others. Although in aggregate our intellectual property is important to our operations, we do not consider
any single patent or trademark to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole. From time to time, however, we do engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. For a discussion of risks related to our
intellectual property, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  All capitalized brands and product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, Danaher or its subsidiaries.       Competition       Although our businesses generally operate in highly
competitive markets, our competitive position cannot be determined accurately in the aggregate or by segment since none of our competitors offer all of the same product lines or serve all of the same markets as we do. Because of the diversity of the
products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including well-established regional or specialized competitors, as well as larger companies or divisions of larger companies that have greater sales,
marketing, research, and financial resources than we do. We are facing increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new, large companies into certain markets, the entry of competitors based in low-cost
manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets. The number of competitors varies by product line. Our management believes that we have a market leadership position in many of the markets we serve. Key competitive factors
vary among our businesses and product lines, but typically include the specific factors noted above with respect to each particular business, as well as price, quality, delivery speed, service and support, innovation, distribution network, and brand
name. For a discussion of risks related to competition, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Seasonal Nature of Business    
  General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the
industries and end-markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months, medical and capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, sales to original equipment manufacturers are often
stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products, and sales to the United States government are often stronger in the third calendar quarter. However, as a whole, we are not subject to material seasonality.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

    Working Capital       We
maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items. In addition, our sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our
competitors.       Backlog       The table below provides the
unfulfilled orders attributable to each of our four segments at the end of 2008 and 2007 ($ in millions):       
    We expect that a large majority of unfilled orders will be delivered to customers within 3 to 4 months. Given the
relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover that are characteristic of most of our products and the shortening of product life cycles, we believe that backlog is indicative of short-term revenue performance but not necessarily a
reliable indicator of medium or long-term performance.       Employee Relations        At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 50,300 persons, of which approximately 22,100 were employed in the United States. Of these United States employees, approximately 2,700 were hourly-rated, unionized
employees. Outside the United States, we have government-mandated collective bargaining arrangements or union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where many of our employees are represented by unions or works councils. While we
generally have experienced satisfactory relations at our various locations, we are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results
of operations.       Research and Development       The table
below describes our research and development expenditures over each of the last three years, by segment and in the aggregate ($ in millions):       

*  
  Included in 2007 research and development expenses for the Professional Instrumentation segment is a charge for $60 million related to acquired in-process research and development
in connection with the Tektronix acquisition.        We conduct research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products,
enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of our existing products and expanding the applications for  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

which uses of our products are appropriate. Our research and development efforts include internal initiatives and those that use licensed or acquired
technology. We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position. For a discussion of the
risks related to the need to develop and commercialize new products and product enhancements, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Government Contracts       Although the substantial majority of our revenue in 2008 was from customers other than governmental entities, we have
agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities, primarily involving products in the aerospace and defense, product identification, water quality, motion and mechanics  hand tool businesses. As a result, we are subject to
various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Regulatory Matters       We face comprehensive government regulation both
within and outside the United States relating to the development, manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and services. The following sections describe certain of these regulations.        Environmental Laws and Regulations        Our operations are subject
to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal
of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. A number of our operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. We must also comply with
various health and safety regulations in both the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had and, based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently
in effect, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. For a discussion of risks
related to compliance with environmental and health and safety laws, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.       In addition to environmental
compliance costs, we from time to time incur costs related to alleged damages associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. For example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal
sites at which environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority. We have
received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and from state and non-U.S. environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others previously disposed of hazardous wastes require clean-up and other
possible remedial action, including sites where we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under U.S. federal and state environmental laws and regulations. We have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing
facilities, in both the United States and abroad, to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging
injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.      We have made a provision for environmental investigation and remediation and
environmental-related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. We generally make an assessment of the costs involved for our remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well
as our prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that potential remediation liability for properties currently or previously owned is probable and reasonably estimable, it accrues the total estimated costs, including
investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. We also estimate our exposure for probable environmental-related personal injury claims and accrue for this estimated liability. While we actively pursue insurance recoveries as well as
recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, we do not recognize any recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

   The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of our involvement in certain sites,
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites
and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. Please see Note 7
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our environmental provisions. All provisions have been recorded without giving effect to any possible future third party recoveries. For the reasons described above, we
cannot assure you that our estimates of environmental liabilities will not change.      In view of our financial position and provisions for environmental
remediation matters and environmental-related personal injury claims and based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, we believe that our liability related to past or current waste disposal practices and
other hazardous materials handling practices will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. For a discussion of risks related to past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous
substances, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.         Medical Devices        Certain of our products are medical devices that are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) and by the counterpart agencies of the non-U.S. countries where our
products are sold. Some of the regulatory requirements of these foreign countries are different than those applicable in the United States.      Pursuant to
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the  FDCA ), the FDA regulates virtually all phases of the development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of medical devices, including their introduction into interstate commerce, manufacture,
advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing, distribution and record keeping. Pursuant to the FDCA and FDA regulations, certain facilities of our operating subsidiaries are registered with the FDA as medical device manufacturing establishments. The
FDA, as well as industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization (ISO), regularly inspect our registered and/or certified facilities.      We sell both Class I and Class II medical devices. A medical device, whether exempt from, or cleared pursuant to, the premarket notification requirements of the FDCA, or approved pursuant to a premarket approval application, is subject to
ongoing regulatory oversight by the FDA to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to, product labeling requirements and limitations, including those related to promotion and marketing efforts, quality system
requirements and medical device (adverse event) reporting. For a discussion of risks related to our regulation by the FDA and counterpart agencies of other countries, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.       Certain of our products utilize radioactive material, and we are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal
of these materials.      In addition, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including
anti-kickback and false claims laws.        Export/Import Compliance        We are required to comply with various export/import control and economic sanctions laws, including:       

the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things,
imposes license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services (which are items specifically designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List);

the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing
requirements on the export or re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that potentially have both commercial and military applications);            
   13   

Table of Contents  

the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated
countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and          

the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.         Non-U.S. governments have also implemented similar export and import control regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions. For a discussion of risks related to
export/import control and economic sanctions laws, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        International Operations       Our products and services are available worldwide, and our principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia. We believe this geographic diversity allows
us to draw on the skills of a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers us an
opportunity to access new markets for products. In addition, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. The table below describes annual revenue derived
outside the U.S. as a percentage of total annual revenue for each of the last three years, by segment and in the aggregate:       
    The table below describes long-lived assets located outside the United States as a percentage of total long-lived
assets in each of the last three years, by segment and in the aggregate:       

*  
  Percentages presented for the year ended December 31, 2007 have been restated to reflect the finalization of the purchase accounting and associated allocation of long-lived
assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, to appropriate geographies related to the November 2007 acquisition of Tektronix.        For additional information related to revenues and long-lived assets by country, please refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for information regarding deferred taxes by geography, please refer to Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.      The manner in which our products and services are sold outside the United States differs by business and by region.
Most of our sales in non-U.S. markets are made by subsidiaries located outside the United States, though we also sell directly from the U.S. into non-U.S. markets through various representatives and distributors. In countries with low sales volumes,
we generally sell through representatives and distributors.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements and information about the possible effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our business is set forth in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  For a discussion
of risks related to our non-US operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Major Customers
      No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2008, 2007 or 2006.       Available Information       We maintain an internet website at www.danaher.com. We make available free of charge on the
website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably
practicable after filing such material electronically with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our Internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.       Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters       Our Corporate
Governance Guidelines, the charters of each of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, and the Danaher Standards of Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that
apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and other senior financial officers) are available in the  Investors   Corporate Governance  section of our website at
www.danaher.com. Stockholders may request a free copy of these documents from:      Danaher Corporation      Attention: Corporate Secretary      2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.      12   th    Floor
     Washington, DC 20006       Certifications       We have filed certifications under Rule 13a-14(a) under the Exchange Act as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our President and Chief
Executive Officer submitted an annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on May 7, 2008 in accordance with the NYSE listing standards.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS          You should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material,
but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as the current global economic slowdown, disruption in the financial markets and other
U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of
expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
        Deteriorating general economic conditions and uncertainties in the global financial markets may adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition.        Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. Financial markets in
the United States and abroad have experienced extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability and declining valuations of investments.
These disruptions are likely to have an ongoing adverse effect on the world economy. A continuing economic downturn and financial market disruptions may:       

reduce demand for our products and services, increase order cancellations and result in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies;
           
   15   

Table of Contents  

increase the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories;          

increase price competition in our served markets;          

result in supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products;          

increase the risk of impairment of long-lived assets due to underutilized manufacturing capacity; and          

increase the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in
addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us .          In addition, although we were
able to continue accessing the commercial paper markets throughout 2008, there can be no assurances that the commercial paper markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facility will be able to
provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these financial market and general economic developments and they could have a material adverse effect on our ability to draw on our
revolving credit facility and borrow money in the credit markets or otherwise, or on the terms of such borrowings.       We face intense competition and if
we are unable to compete effectively, we may face decreased demand or price reductions for our products.        Our businesses operate in industries that
are intensely competitive. Because of the diversity of products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors. We are facing increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry
of new, large companies into certain markets, the entry of competitors based in low-cost manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with
major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services designed to maintain our brand recognition and leadership position in various product categories and
penetrating new markets, including in developing countries. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our profitability.   
    Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new products and product enhancements based on
technological innovation.        We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product
introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation on a timely basis, our products will become technologically obsolete over time and our revenues, cash flow,
profitability and competitive position will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to:       

correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;          

allocate our research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects;          

anticipate and respond to our competitors  development of new products and technological innovations;          

differentiate our offerings from our competitors  offerings;          

innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served
markets;          

obtain adequate intellectual property rights;          

successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and manufacture and deliver new products in sufficient volumes on time; and

encourage customers to adopt new technologies.            
   16   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable
technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and
our profitability may suffer.        Our growth rate could decline if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated.
       Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could
result in diminished demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our growth rate and profitability.        Our acquisition of
businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital.        As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the
ordinary course, some of which may be material. During 2008, we acquired seventeen businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $423 million (including transaction costs and net of cash acquired); during 2007, we acquired twelve
businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $3.6 billion (including transaction costs and net of cash acquired); and during 2006, we acquired eleven businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.7 billion (including
transaction costs and net of cash acquired). Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability:

Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in
accordance with our anticipated timetable.          

Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community s expectations in any given fiscal period, or over the long
term.          

Acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results, particularly in light of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS) No. 141 (R),  Business Combinations,  which will apply to any acquisition completed in 2009 or later. Under SFAS No. 141(R), we will be required to expense a number of acquisition-related items that under previous accounting
rules did not impact our income statement.          

Acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems.          

We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems.          

We may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition.          

We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or
internal control deficiencies. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.

As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are not able to realize
the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets.           Any inability to
consummate acquisitions at our prior rate could negatively impact our growth rate.        We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at similar rates
to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, the recent tightening of the credit markets, competition among prospective
buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or further deterioration in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. Our ability to
grow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

     The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect
us and may result in unexpected liabilities.        Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners
to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may not be able to meet their
indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.        Contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.        We have retained responsibility for some of the known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax
liabilities, product liability claims and environmental matters, and have agreed to indemnify the purchasers of these businesses for certain known and unknown contingent liabilities. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material
adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition but we can not be certain that this favorable pattern will continue.        Our
indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow.        As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $2.6 billion in outstanding
indebtedness. In addition, we had the ability to incur an additional $826 million of indebtedness in the form of commercial paper or bank loans under our outstanding facilities and programs. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of
credit to meet future financing needs. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including:       

requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available
for other purposes such as acquisitions and stock repurchases;          

reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and          

exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.         We may incur significantly more debt in the future. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase.      Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including certain restrictions on our ability to incur liens on our assets, and requires us to maintain
a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus shareholders  equity) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of 0.65 to 1.0 or less. In addition, our long-term debt obligations
include covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond
our control. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable.        We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets.        At December 31, 2008, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets and other long term assets) totaled approximately $13.3 billion. In accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned
changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods
recognized.        Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.        Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Increased strength of the U.S.
dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may have a material adverse effect on sales or require us to lower our prices, and also decrease our reported revenues or margins in respect of
sales conducted in foreign currencies to the extent we are unable or determine not to increase local currency prices. Likewise, decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could have  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

a material adverse effect on the cost of materials and products purchased overseas. In addition, our sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars for
reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of transactions in foreign countries are translated into U.S. dollars.        If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive
injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.        We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to
intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. In addition, the steps that we and our
licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or
protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. Our failure or inability to obtain intellectual property rights that convey
competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property, could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations.        Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses
or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.        From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding
intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In the event of a
successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to critical technology or be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, revenues,
profitability and cash flows. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our profitability and
cash flows.        We are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.        We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of
our products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition-related
matters. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits,
and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we
may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. In addition, developments in legal proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our
financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations in any period.        Our operations, products and services expose us to the
risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.        Certain of our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for
the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that we have
been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In
addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
        
   19   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or
current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous
substances. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to  Item 1. Business   Regulatory Matters.  We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous
substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or
future business activities.        Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and reputation.        In addition to the environmental regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to
extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following:       

We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers,
business partners and other persons and dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and
in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain
products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory.          

Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by counterpart agencies of other countries and by
regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning
letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, suspension or withdrawal of
approvals and pre-market notification rescissions. In addition, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws.

We also have agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing
business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private
contracts. Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors.
Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with
the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might
result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting.         In addition, failure
to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to manufacture, import and export products and services, and damage to our
reputation. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the ISO, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services
and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to  Item 1. Business   Regulatory Matters.          
   20   

Table of Contents  

     Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents
or business partners.        We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by
our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject
us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation.        Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in
additional tax payments for prior periods.        We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Our effective tax
rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions and tax planning strategies), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and
liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability in any
period. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may
include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities.        Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely
affect our results of operations and cash flows.        The performance of the financial markets (particularly the equity markets) and interest rates
impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely
impact our results of operations and cash flows. The recent volatility in global capital markets has resulted in significant declines in the fair value of our pension plan assets during 2008.        We have experienced and may continue to experience higher costs to produce our products as a result of rising prices for commodities.        Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, plastics and other
petroleum-based products. Prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. Over the last three years, the prices of raw materials have been volatile. For several types of raw materials, prices increased
substantially in 2007 and 2008 before declining late in 2008. Due to the highly competitive nature of the industries which we serve and the cost-containment efforts of our customers, we may be unable to fully pass along cost increases through higher
prices. If we are unable fully to recover higher raw material costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our business, results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.        If we cannot adjust our purchases of materials, components and
equipment required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changing market conditions or customer demand, our income and results of operations may suffer.        We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in
customer demand and market fluctuations. During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices. If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet
increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into
non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete
inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers. If these or
other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we could face manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies.        If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity to reflect the demand for our products, our income and results of operations may suffer.        Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times
exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely
affect our business and financial results.        Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.   
     We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as health and safety,
environmental and food and drug regulations and regulations governing communications. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended
to become more stringent over time. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products.      In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations. In these markets, the failure of governmental and other entities to adopt new regulations, or the adoption of
new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect our growth rate. In addition, certain of our customers receive reimbursement from government insurance programs for some of the costs of the
products that they purchase from us. A reduction in governmental support for healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation governing the delivery or pricing of healthcare services may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer
of our products and services or to reduce the prices they are willing to pay.        Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and
other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs.        We have a
number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our
productivity and results of operations.        Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition or performance of, key distributors,
resellers and other channel partners could adversely affect our results of operations.        Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of
their products to key distributors, resellers and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors  products, and if they favor our
competitors  products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition or performance, could
adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows .  For example, the recent economic downturn and financial market disruption has increased the possibility that one or more of our significant customers, or a group of less significant
customers, could become insolvent, which could result in uncollectible accounts receivable in excess of established reserves, preference actions that would require us to repay to the bankruptcy estate payments recently received from such customer,
increased obsolete inventory and impairment of long-lived assets due to underutilized manufacturing capacity. In addition, the consolidation of distributors in certain of our served industries, as well as the formation of large and sophisticated
purchasing groups in industries such as healthcare, could adversely impact our profitability.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

     The inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified officers and other employees could impede
our ability to compete successfully.        If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified officers and other employees, we may not
be able to:       

effectively integrate acquired businesses and realize anticipated performance results from those businesses;          

effectively implement the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM throughout our organization and achieve the cost savings and other benefits that effective implementation of the
DBS can achieve; and          

otherwise profitably grow our business.           International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.        In 2008, approximately 53% of our sales were derived outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales
outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations,
including:       

interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers;          

changes in a specific country s or region s political or economic conditions;          

trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;          

unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws;          

limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;          

difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;          

differing labor regulations;          

differing protection of intellectual property; and          

wars and terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto.         Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and growth.        Cyclical economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.        Certain of our businesses operate in industries that have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have adversely impacted demand for the equipment and services that we manufacture and market. Any competitive pricing pressures,
slowdown in capital investments or other downturn in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period.        If we suffer loss to our facilities, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed.        Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were
to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         None       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our corporate headquarters are located in Washington,
D.C. in a facility that we lease. At December 31, 2008, we had 226 significant manufacturing and distribution locations worldwide, comprising approximately 21 million square feet, of which approximately 13 million square feet are
owned and approximately 8 million square feet are leased. Of  
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

these manufacturing and distribution locations, 117 facilities are located in the United States and 109 are located outside the United States, primarily in
Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, the rest of North America, Latin America and Australia. The number of manufacturing and distribution locations by business segment is:       

Professional Instrumentation, 69;          

Medical Technologies, 52;          

Industrial Technologies, 69; and          
    We consider our
facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Please refer to Note 11 in the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to our lease commitments.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         For a discussion of legal proceedings, please
see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Legal Proceedings .       

ITEM 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         No matters
were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008.       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of our executive officers. All of our executive officers hold office at the pleasure of our Board of
Directors.       
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Steven M. Rales has served as Chairman of the Board since January 1984. In addition, during the past five years, he has
been a principal in private and public business entities in the areas of manufacturing and film production. Mr. Rales is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales.      Mitchell P. Rales has served as Chairman of the Executive Committee since 1990. In addition, during the past five years, he has been a principal in private and public business entities in the manufacturing area. Mr. Rales is a brother of
Steven M. Rales.      H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in 2001.      Daniel L. Comas was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2005. He served as Vice President-Corporate Development from 1996 to April
2004 and as Senior Vice President-Finance and Corporate Development from April 2004 to April 2005.      William K. Daniel II joined Danaher as Vice President
and Group Executive in July 2006 and was appointed Executive Vice President in July 2008. From 1987 until he joined Danaher he worked at ArvinMeritor, Inc., a supplier of motor vehicle systems and components, in a variety of general management
positions, most recently as Senior Vice President.      Philip W. Knisely has served as Executive Vice President since he joined Danaher in June 2000.
     James A. Lico was appointed Executive Vice President in September 2005. He has served in a variety of general management positions since joining Danaher
in 1996, including most recently as President of Fluke Corporation from July 2000 until September 2005, as Vice President and Group Executive of Danaher from December 2002 until September 2005, and as Vice President   Danaher Business Systems
Office from September 2004 until September 2005.      Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. was appointed Executive Vice President in May 2006. He has served in a variety of
general management positions since joining Danaher in 1990, including most recently as Vice President and Group Executive of Danaher from December 2002 until May 2006.      James H. Ditkoff has served as Senior Vice President-Finance and Tax since December 2002.      Jonathan P. Graham joined
Danaher as Senior Vice President-General Counsel in July 2006. Prior to joining the company, he served as Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy for General Electric Corporation, a diversified industrial company, from October 2004 until June
2006. He practiced with the law firm of Williams   Connolly LLP, a law firm based in Washington, D.C., from 1988 until September 2004, most recently as partner from 1996 to September 2004.      Robert S. Lutz has served as Vice President-Chief Accounting Officer since March 2003.      Daniel A. Raskas was appointed Vice President   Corporate Development in November 2004. Prior to joining Danaher, he worked for Thayer Capital Partners, a private equity investment firm, from 1998 through October
2004, most recently as Managing Director from 2001 through October 2004.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

      PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES         Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DHR. As of February 12, 2009, there were approximately 3,059 holders of record of our
common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends paid per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows:       
    Our payment of dividends in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on business
conditions, our earnings and other factors.       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       Repurchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2008 are listed in the following table:       

(1)  
  On April 21, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Company s common stock from time to time on the
open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Company s repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Company s management based on its evaluation
of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company s equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and
for other corporate purposes.         Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities       During the fourth quarter of 2008, holders of an aggregate of 33 Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) ($1,000 of principal amount at maturity) converted the LYONs into an
aggregate of 479 shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share. The shares of common stock were issued solely to an existing security holder upon conversion of the LYONs pursuant to the exemption from registration provided under
Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act 1933, as amended.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          (in thousands, except per share
information)        

(a)  
  Includes $211 million ($150 million after-tax or $0.45 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s power quality business. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information           
   27   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS         Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is designed to provide a reader of Danaher Corporation s ( Danaher,   Company,   we, 
 us,   our ) financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Company s MD A is divided into four main sections:       

Overview          

Results of Operations          

Liquidity and Capital Resources          

Critical Accounting Policies          OVERVIEW
        General        We strive to create shareholder
value through:       

delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for our products and services;

upper quartile financial performance compared to our peer companies; and          

upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to our peer companies.         To accomplish these goals, we use a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM, which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and
innovation. Within the DBS framework, we pursue a number of ongoing strategic initiatives intended to improve our performance, including initiatives relating to manufacturing improvement, idea generation, product development and commercialization
and global sourcing of materials and services. To further these objectives we also acquire businesses that either strategically fit within our existing business portfolio or expand our portfolio into a new and attractive business area. We believe
that many acquisition opportunities remain available within our target markets. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and effectively integrated can affect our overall growth and operating results. We also continually assess the
strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment.      Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. In 2008, approximately 53% of Danaher s sales were derived outside the United States. As a global business, Danaher s operations are affected by
worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors. For example, in those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the
Company s customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. Danaher s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its product sales and services, typically
helps limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. However, the broad impact of the worldwide credit market turmoil and economic downturn have negatively impacted the growth
rates of most of the Company s businesses and resulted in the Company s overall revenue from existing businesses contracting in the fourth quarter as compared to the prior year fourth quarter.      Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall
outlook for the Company. The Company s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. In addition, the Company s
order rates are highly indicative of the Company s revenue in the short term and thus a key measure of anticipated performance.        Significant
Acquisitions        In November 2007, the Company significantly expanded its test and measurement business with the acquisition of all of the outstanding
shares of Tektronix, Inc. for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. Tektronix is part of Danaher s test and measurement business  
       
   28   

Table of Contents  

included in the Professional Instrumentation segment. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of
commercial paper and the Company s November 2007 common stock offering, and to a lesser extent from available cash.        Business Performance
       While differences exist among the Company s businesses, the Company experienced overall growth during 2008 as compared to 2007. As a result of
the deterioration in global economic conditions that occurred in the latter part of 2008, all of the year-over-year growth from existing businesses experienced by the Company occurred in the first nine months of the year. Demand weakened
significantly in the fourth quarter resulting in a decline in revenue from existing businesses in the fourth quarter of 2008 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Notwithstanding the fourth quarter decline, the Company s full year growth
was led by strength throughout the entire year in the Company s environmental, acute care diagnostic and life sciences businesses. Growth from the test and measurement business during the first nine months of 2008 was partially offset by sales
declines experienced in the fourth quarter due to weak demand. Sales growth was also impacted adversely in the fourth quarter 2008 due to weak demand in the Company s industrial and consumer oriented businesses as demand slowed considerably in
the dental technologies, product identification, enterprise network performance management and mechanics  hand tools businesses.      The Company
continues to operate in a highly competitive business environment in most markets and geographies served. The Company s future performance will depend on its ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities in the markets and
geographies served, including contraction in most of the world s major economies, access to funding in the global capital markets, trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of competitors, the expansion of
market opportunities in Asia and volatility in raw material costs. The Company regularly evaluates market needs and conditions with the objective of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost
efficient manner. Consistent with this approach, and in light of the worsening global economic environment, the Company initiated a series of restructuring actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 to better position the Company s cost
base for future periods. Please refer to  Results of Operations Restructuring and Other Related Charges  below for additional discussion.      Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, a substantial portion of its sales and profits are generated in foreign currencies. Sales and profits generated by subsidiaries operating outside of the
United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period and as a result are affected by changes in exchange rates. With limited exceptions, the Company has accepted the exposure to exchange rate
movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and
assets and liabilities in the Company s consolidated financial statements. Please refer to  Financial Instruments and Risk Management  section below for additional information.      On average, the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies during 2008, particularly during the first half of 2008. The U.S. Dollar strengthened against
other major currencies in the second half of 2008 and, as of December 31, 2008, U.S. Dollar exchange rate levels were stronger than as of the end of 2007. Currency exchange rates increased reported sales for 2008 by approximately 2.0% as
compared to 2007. Given the lower overall profit margins in the Company s European businesses, currency rate changes lowered year-over-year comparisons of reported operating profit margins. If the exchange rates in effect as of
December 31, 2008 prevail throughout 2009, currency exchange rates will adversely impact 2009 sales and operating results relative to the Company s performance in 2008. Additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major
currencies would further adversely impact the Company s sales and results of operations. Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would benefit the Company s sales and results of operations on an overall basis.
        
   29   

Table of Contents  

     Outlook        During the fourth quarter of 2008, worldwide credit markets and overall global economic conditions deteriorated significantly, resulting in a general decline in worldwide demand for the Company s products and services. The economic
uncertainties that continue to exist suggest that global demand will continue to contract, at least in the early months of 2009. While none of the Company s businesses are insulated from the slowing demand, the contraction is anticipated to
impact adversely certain of the Company s businesses more than others. In particular, the Company s industrial and consumer businesses are likely to be most impacted with the medical technologies and environmental businesses less affected.
The Company expects further contraction in the industrial technologies and tools and components segments as well as portions of the test and measurement businesses. To minimize the impact of the recessionary economic conditions, as discussed below,
the Company initiated restructuring actions in the fourth quarter of 2008, and will continue to assess market conditions and take actions as it deems necessary to appropriately position its businesses in light of the economic environment. The
Company currently estimates additional pre-tax restructuring costs in the range of $40 to $60 million to be incurred during 2009. Consistent with past practice, the Company will also continue to actively manage working capital with a view to
maximizing cash flow.      Although recent distress in the financial markets has not had a significant impact on the Company s financial position or
liquidity as of the filing date of this Report, management continues to monitor the financial markets and general global economic conditions. If further changes in financial markets or other areas of the economy adversely affect the Company s
access to the commercial paper markets, the Company would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and existing committed credit facilities to provide short-term funding. Please refer to the  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
section for additional discussion.       RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       Consolidated sales from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 15.0% over the comparable period of 2007. Sales from existing businesses contributed 2.5% growth, acquisitions contributed 10.5% growth and
currency translation provided 2.0% growth. The majority of the growth related to currency translation occurred during the first nine months of 2008, as currency translation adversely impacted results in the fourth quarter of 2008. References in this
report to sales from existing businesses include sales from acquired businesses starting from and after the first anniversary of the acquisition, but exclude currency effect.      The growth in sales from acquisitions in the year ended December 31, 2008 is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of ChemTreat in July 2007 and Tektronix in November 2007, both of which are included in the
Professional Instrumentation segment. The acquisitions of other, smaller businesses in the Medical Technologies, Professional Instrumentation and Industrial Technologies segments also contributed to the year-over-year growth. The Company acquired
seventeen businesses and twelve businesses during the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Operating profit margins from continuing
operations for the Company were 14.7% in the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to 15.8% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Charges recorded related to the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities reduced the Company s
2008 operating profit margins by 65 basis points. In addition, the dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced 2008 operating profit margins by 80 basis points, including the adverse impact of $60 million ($45 million or $0.13 per diluted share, net of
tax) of acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue fair value charges recorded related to the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company also incurred Tektronix related charges in 2007 associated with acquired in-process research and development
that affected year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points. A gain recorded in the second quarter of 2007 from the collection of indemnification proceeds related to a lawsuit also affected year-over-year comparisons of
operating profit margins by 10 basis points.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

     Restructuring and Other Related Charges        In light of the worsening global economic environment, the Company initiated a series of restructuring actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 to better position the Company s cost base for future periods. As a
result, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other related charges totaling $82.0 million ($61.5 million, net of tax or $0.18 per diluted share) as indicated in the following table ($ in thousands):       
    The restructuring and other related charges are intended to improve future operational efficiency through targeted
workforce reductions and manufacturing facility consolidations and closures. Approximately 93% of the total pre-tax charges require cash payments, which are being funded with cash generated from operations. Through December 31, 2008,
approximately $20 million of required cash payments had been made. The majority of the remaining cash expenditures are expected to occur in the first quarter of 2009. As a result of these restructuring activities, the Company expects recurring
pre-tax savings to exceed $100 million during 2009.      The fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities resulted in net workforce reductions of approximately
1,800 associates and thirteen facility closures, the majority of which have been completed as of December 31, 2008. Remaining workforce reductions and facility closure activities associated with the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities
to be completed during 2009 are not significant. In conjunction with the closing of facilities, certain inventory was written off as unusable in future operating locations. This inventory consisted principally of component parts and raw materials,
which were either redundant to inventory at the facilities being merged or were not economically feasible to relocate since the inventory was purchased to operate on equipment and tooling which was not being relocated. In addition, property, plant
and equipment at closed facilities were evaluated based on expected future use and written down to fair value where impairments were identified.      In the
accompanying consolidated statement of earnings, the pre-tax restructuring and related charges, consisting of $76 million cash charges and $6 million non-cash charges, are reflected in the following captions ($ in thousands):       
    The impact of these restructuring and related charges in each of the Company s segments is discussed in the
following analysis of the segment results of operations.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

     Business Segments        The table below summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated:       
     PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION       Businesses in the Company s Professional Instrumentation segment offer professional and technical customers various products and services that are used to enable or enhance the performance of their work. The
Professional Instrumentation segment encompasses two strategic lines of business: environmental, and test and measurement. These businesses produce and sell bench top and compact, professional electronic test tools and calibration equipment; a
variety of video test and monitoring products, network management solutions, network diagnostic equipment and related services; water quality instrumentation and consumables and ultraviolet disinfection systems; industrial water treatment solutions;
and retail/commercial petroleum products and services, including dispensers, payment systems, underground storage tank leak detection and vapor recovery systems.       Professional Instrumentation Selected Financial Data        
     Components of Sales Growth        
     2008 COMPARED TO 2007       Segment sales for Professional Instrumentation increased 37.5% for 2008 as compared to 2007. Sales growth was experienced in both of the segment s strategic lines of business during the year, with the majority of the growth coming from
acquisitions. Price increases accounted for approximately 2.0% sales growth which is reflected as a component of the sales from existing businesses.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

   Fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities adversely impacted operating profit margins in the Professional
Instrumentation segment by 60 basis points in 2008 as compared to 2007. In addition, the dilutive impact of recently acquired businesses reduced 2008 operating profit margins by 295 basis points, including the adverse impact of acquired inventory
and acquired deferred revenue fair value charges recorded related to the acquisition of Tektronix (which charges will not recur in 2009). The Company also incurred Tektronix-related charges in 2007 associated with acquired in-process research and
development that affected year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 170 basis points.      Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales
increased during 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily as a result of the increase in amortization expense associated with the intangible assets acquired in connection with the Tektronix acquisition.       Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment        Environmental . Sales from the Company s environmental businesses, representing approximately 51% of segment sales for 2008, increased 15.5% in 2008 compared to 2007. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.5% growth while
acquisitions accounted for 7.5% growth and currency translation accounted for 1.5% growth.      The segment s water quality businesses experienced
high-single digit revenue growth from existing businesses in 2008 as compared to 2007. This growth was primarily a result of strong laboratory and process sales, reflecting in part the results of increased sales force investments and penetration
into emerging markets. Growth in sales was experienced in all major geographic regions with particular strength in Asia where sales increased at a double digit rate. Also contributing to the year-over-year growth was increased demand by
municipalities for the businesses  ultraviolet disinfection water treatment product offerings which experienced a mid-teens sales growth rate.      The
retail petroleum equipment business experienced mid-single digit revenue growth from existing businesses in 2008 as compared to 2007. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales of payment and point of sale retail and payment solution product
offerings offset by a decline in dispensing equipment sales primarily in North America and Europe. An increase in demand for the business  vapor recovery products in North America also contributed to the year-over-year sales growth, primarily
related to an enhanced vapor recovery product that received regulatory approval and launched during the fourth quarter of 2008.         Test and
Measurement . Sales from the Company s test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 49% of segment sales for 2008, grew 70% compared to 2007. Sales from existing businesses were essentially flat while acquisitions accounted
for 68.0% growth and currency translation accounted for approximately 2.0% growth.        Sales growth from existing businesses was driven primarily by
performance during the first nine months of 2008 as a result of strong sales of the business  thermography and precision measurement product offerings as well as strong growth from investments in emerging markets. While demand for the
business  thermography products continued to increase as compared to 2007 during the fourth quarter, demand slowed for the business  traditional industrial digital hand-held instruments and precision measurement products resulting in a
mid-single digit rate sales decline in the quarter and offsetting the growth experienced in the first nine months. In addition, the sales decline in the fourth quarter is a result of reductions of inventory in the distribution channel as well as the
impact of currency exchange rate volatility on customer demand in certain emerging markets. Sales also declined throughout 2008 in the business  enterprise network performance management line of business as a result of generally lower
telecommunications demand and slower information technology spending by customers.       2007 COMPARED TO 2006       Segment sales for Professional Instrumentation increased 22.0% for 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the segment s strategic
lines of business. Price increases accounted for approximately 1.5% sales growth and the impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses.         

   33   

Table of Contents  

   Operating profit margins were 20.1% in 2007 compared to 21.5% in 2006. Operating profit margin improvements of 135 basis
points related to existing businesses were more than offset by the dilutive impact of lower operating profit margins of acquired businesses, which reduced segment operating profit margins by 260 basis points compared to 2006. Included in the
dilutive impact on operating margins from acquired businesses is approximately $68 million (185 basis points) in charges associated with the acquisition of Tektronix, primarily related to acquired in-process research and development activities,
acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue. In addition, year over year comparisons are impacted by a gain on the sale of real estate during 2006 and recovery of certain previously written-off receivables during 2006 which increased that
period s operating profit margins by 15 basis points. Leverage on increased sales volume in 2008 contributed positively to overall Professional Instrumentation operating profit margins.       Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment        Environmental . Sales from the Company s environmental businesses, representing approximately 60% of segment sales for 2007, increased 16.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.0% growth.
Acquisitions accounted for 7.0% growth and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth.      The Company s water quality businesses experienced
low-double digit revenue growth for 2007 compared to 2006, primarily as a result of strength in sales of laboratory and process instrumentation products in all major geographic regions. In addition, sales of the Company s ultraviolet water
treatment systems grew double-digit compared to 2006. Investment in sales forces and other growth initiatives, in addition to continued penetration of the Asian wastewater market, including a significant reclamation project in Australia, contributed
to the growth. Sales growth from acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007.      The retail petroleum equipment business
experienced low-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business  point of sale payment systems and service business enjoyed robust growth in 2007, primarily in Europe. In addition, the business experienced strong demand
during 2007 in North America and China for its leak detection systems that were introduced during the period. These sales gains were offset by difficult prior year comparisons, a result of strong dispenser sales in 2006 due to extensive
refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory mandates in Mexico that did not repeat in 2007.       Test and Measurement . Sales from the Company s
test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 40% of segment sales for 2007, grew 31.5% compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 20.0% growth and currency translation
accounted for approximately 3.5% growth.      New product offerings in the thermography, power quality test and process calibration markets generated strong
sales in the electrical and industrial channels in all major geographical areas during 2007. The network test business experienced mid-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Large orders from telecommunications carriers in the United
States during the first three quarters of 2007 and cable test equipment sales in Europe were the primary drivers of the network test growth. Acquisition growth was primarily related to the acquisition of Tektronix in addition to several smaller
acquisitions throughout the year.       MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES       The Medical Technologies segment consists of businesses that offer research and clinical medical professionals various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

    Medical Technologies Selected Financial Data        
     Components of Sales Growth        
     2008 COMPARED TO 2007       Segment sales for Medical Technologies increased 9.5% for 2008 as compared to 2007. Sales growth was primarily driven by the segment s acute care diagnostics, life sciences instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses. Price
increases accounted for approximately 1.0% sales growth which is reflected as a component of the sales from existing businesses.      The fourth quarter 2008
restructuring activities adversely impacted operating profit margins in the Medical Technologies segment by 80 basis points in 2008 as compared to 2007. In addition, the dilutive impact of recently acquired businesses reduced 2008 operating profit
margins by 40 basis points. A decline in demand for certain products in the dental technologies business, in addition to increased sales force investment and research and development costs within the life sciences business, also adversely impacted
year-over-year operating margin profit comparisons.       Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment       Revenues in the segment s acute care diagnostics business grew at mid-single digit rate in 2008 as compared to 2007. The year-over-year growth was primarily
attributable to strong aftermarket consumables sales for the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation, sales of the business  compact version of its blood gas analysis instrument as well as sales resulting from the
launch of the business  AQT cardiac marker during 2008. Sales growth was experienced in all major geographic regions during the year. Particularly strong growth in emerging markets during the first nine months of the year moderated during the
fourth quarter as a result of currency exchange rate volatility and economic uncertainty.      The segment s life science instrumentation business
experienced high-single digit revenue growth in 2008 as compared to 2007. Continued strong sales of the business  pathology diagnostics instrumentation and consumables offerings as well as compound microscopy product offerings drove the
majority of this growth. All major geographic regions experienced growth. The acquisition of Surgipath Medical Industries in the fourth quarter of 2008 is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the pathology
diagnostics business.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

   The segment s dental business  revenue in 2008 was essentially flat as compared to 2007. Revenues in the dental
technologies business grew at a mid-single digit rate through the first nine months of 2008 primarily driven by strong demand for imaging equipment. However, a significant decline in demand in the fourth quarter for the majority of the products in
the dental technologies  business, including imaging equipment, more than offset this earlier growth resulting in low-single digit sales declines for the year. The decline in demand is primarily attributable to customer decisions to cancel or
delay capital spending as well as inventory reductions in certain distribution channels. Offsetting the 2008 sales declines in the dental technologies business was low-single digit growth in the dental consumables business. Sales growth in the
dental consumables  businesses was primarily due to strong sales of general dentistry consumables and increased demand for endodontic and infection control products, offset by lower demand in the orthodontia product line.       2007 COMPARED TO 2006       Segment sales increased 35% for 2007 compared
to 2006. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed 1.0% to overall sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006.      Operating profit margin improvements in the segment s existing businesses contributed 100 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement in 2007. Improvements in the operating profit margins of the dental consumable, acute
care diagnostic and life sciences instrumentation businesses were partially offset by lower operating profit margins in the dental equipment businesses. Recently acquired businesses adversely impacted 2007 operating profit margins by 40 basis points
as compared to 2006. In addition, on a comparative basis, 2007 operating margins benefited approximately 50 basis points from the adverse impact on 2006 operating margins that resulted from charges recorded associated with the fair value of acquired
inventory related to the acquisition of Sybron.       Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment       The segment s acute care diagnostics business experienced high-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Increasing sales of diagnostic instruments in
Europe (particularly Russia) in 2007 contributed to this sales growth. The North American and Asia/Pacific markets also contributed to the growth, although at somewhat lower rates than those experienced in the European markets. New product
introductions resulting from the business  continued research and development efforts also contributed to this growth.      The segment s life
science instrumentation business experienced mid-teens revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Robust microscopy demand, particularly confocal microscopes, in North America and Asia were the primary growth drivers. The integration of Vision with
Leica Microsystems was completed in 2007 and generated incremental revenue growth, the majority of which has been included as a component of acquisition growth during 2007. Vision s revenue grew approximately 30% in 2007 compared to 2006 when
it was a stand-alone company.      The segment s dental business experienced mid-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business
experienced increased sales volumes in its restorative and orthodontia products as well as in the instrument and treatment unit product offerings across all major geographies. In addition, increased sales of both two-dimensional and
three-dimensional imaging products contributed to the revenue growth in the European market. This growth was partially offset by a decline in instrument and treatment unit sales to Asia reflecting a weak overall Japanese market and the need to
re-register certain products with regulatory authorities in South Korea.       INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES       Businesses in the Industrial Technologies segment manufacture products and sub-systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into
production and packaging lines as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end-products. Many of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install
the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic lines of business, motion and product  
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

identification, and two focused niche businesses, aerospace and defense, and sensors and controls. These businesses produce and sell product identification
equipment and consumables; motion, position, speed, temperature, and level instruments and sensing devices; liquid flow and quality measuring devices; aerospace safety devices and defense articles; and electronic and mechanical counting and
controlling devices. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company disposed of the power quality businesses that were part of this segment and all 2007 and 2006 results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of these discontinued
operations.       Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data        
     Components of Sales Growth        
     2008 COMPARED TO 2007       Segment sales for Industrial Technologies increased 3.5% for 2008 as compared to 2007. Sales growth experienced for the majority of the year in the segment s motion and niche aerospace and defense and sensors lines of business was
partially offset by sales declines experienced in the segment s product identification line of business, primarily in the second half of 2008. Price increases accounted for approximately 2.0% sales growth which is reflected as a component of
the sales from existing businesses.      The fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities adversely impacted operating profit margins in the Industrial
Technologies segment by 70 basis points in 2008 as compared to 2007. In addition, gains recorded in 2007 due to the collection of indemnification proceeds related to a lawsuit and from the sale of real estate adversely impacted year-over-year
operating profit margin comparisons by 45 basis points. Operating profit margin improvements during 2008, primarily relating to cost savings initiatives implemented beginning in late 2007, partially offset these adverse impacts.       Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment        Motion  Sales in the segment s motion businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2008, increased 4.0% over 2007. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 1.0% growth while currency translation accounted
for 3.0% growth during 2008. There were no acquisitions in the motion businesses in 2008 or 2007.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   Sales growth from existing businesses during 2008 was primarily driven by demand for custom motors and drives,
particularly in the elevator application, flat panel display and aerospace and defense end markets. Largely offsetting this growth was weakness in demand for the business  standard motors and drives product offerings throughout the year, and in
particular during the fourth quarter, primarily in North America and Europe. In addition, during the fourth quarter, demand for products supporting the semiconductor and electronic assembly end markets, as well as other industrial applications,
declined at levels in excess of the declines experienced during the first nine months of the year.         Product Identification . The product
identification businesses accounted for approximately 27% of segment sales in 2008. Sales from the segment s product identification businesses decreased 1.5% in 2008 compared to 2007. Sales from existing businesses accounted for a 3.5% decline
in sales while currency translation contributed 1.5% to revenue growth and acquisitions contributed 0.5% to revenue growth in 2008.        Through the
first nine months of 2008, sales growth driven by increased demand for both consumable products and services associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment had partially offset a decline in equipment sales. Further weakening of
equipment demand during the fourth quarter, primarily in North America and Europe, resulted in double-digit year-over-year declines in equipment sales during the quarter as customers cancelled or delayed purchases. The declines in equipment sales
more than offset the sales growth from consumables and services experienced throughout the majority of 2008. In addition, sales in the integrated scanning system product line declined throughout 2008 due to lower capital expenditures by the United
States Postal Service (USPS) and the timing of completion of various large projects for other large parcel post and retail customers.       Focused Niche
Businesses . Revenues in the segment s existing niche businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2008 as compared to 2007, driven primarily by high-single digit sales growth in the segment s aerospace and defense businesses and
low-single digit sales growth in the segment s sensors and controls businesses. Sales growth from the sensors and controls business primarily occurred during the first nine months of 2008 as demand weakened during the fourth quarter resulting
in essentially flat segment sales for the fourth quarter of 2008 as compared to the comparable period of 2007.       2007 COMPARED TO 2006       Price increases contributed 1.5% of sales growth compared to 2006 which impact is reflected in sales from existing businesses.      Operating profit margin improvements in the segment s existing businesses contributed 85 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement for 2007 as
compared to 2006. This margin improvement was driven in part by continued margin expansion in the motion businesses reflecting pricing and productivity initiatives as well as the impact of lower levels of lower-margin USPS sales in 2007 compared to
2006 within the product identification business. In addition, during 2007, the segment recorded a pre-tax gain of $12 million upon collection of indemnification proceeds related to a lawsuit, which improved operating profit margins by 40 basis
points for 2007. These positive factors were partially offset by new acquisitions, restructuring activities, spending for product development and emerging market sales force initiatives.       Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment        Motion  Sales in the Company s motion
businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2007, increased 2.5% over 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decrease in sales and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth in sales during 2007. There were
no acquisitions in the business in 2007 or 2006.      During 2007, the motion business experienced sales growth primarily in the elevator markets as a result
of global conversions to more energy efficient systems and new construction demand in Asia. Demand in OEM applications in Europe also contributed year-over-year sales growth. These growth drivers, however, were more than offset by year-over-year
sales declines resulting from weakness in certain technology end markets as well as declines in the miniature motors business reflecting reduced customer demand.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

    Product Identification.  The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 28% of segment sales in
2007. Sales from the Company s product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decline while currency translation contributed 3.5% to revenue growth and acquisitions
contributed 1.0% to revenue growth in 2007.      The 2007 decline in sales from existing operations resulted from the business completing several large systems
installation projects with the USPS during 2006 which did not repeat in 2007. Sales for the business  non-USPS marking products grew at a mid-single digit rates during 2007 compared to 2006. Strong equipment and after-market sales, particularly
in China, Latin America and Europe, were the primary drivers of this growth facilitated by increased investments in the business  sales force and new product launches in these regions.       Focused Niche Businesses  The segment s niche businesses experienced a mid-single digit growth rate in 2007 compared to 2006. This growth was primarily driven
by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Company s aerospace and defense businesses, partially offset by sales declines in the Company s sensors and controls business, reflecting continued softness in the semi-conductor and
electronic assembly markets.       TOOLS   COMPONENTS       The Tools   Components segment is one of the largest producers and distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics  hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include toolboxes and
storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks; and custom-designed fasteners and components.       Tools  
Components Selected Financial Data        
     Components of Sales Growth        
     2008 COMPARED TO 2007       Price increases accounted for approximately 2.0% sales growth on a year-over-year basis which is reflected as a component of the sales from existing businesses.       
  
   39   

Table of Contents  

   The fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities adversely impacted operating profit margins in the Tools and Components
segment by 30 basis points in 2008 as compared to 2007. Elevated commodity costs and lower overall sales volumes in the mechanics  hand tools business also adversely impacted operating profit margins. A 2008 gain from the settlement of an
insurance claim related to a 2007 plant fire, coupled with the impact of charges recorded in 2007 associated with the fire, favorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 50 basis points. Commodity costs declined
significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 and, assuming they remain at the current levels, will provide a benefit to the segment in 2009.       Overview of
Businesses within the Tools   Components Segment       Mechanics  hand tools sales, representing approximately 69% of segment sales in 2008,
declined 5.5% in 2008 compared to 2007. Sales from existing businesses declined 6.0% during 2008, offset by a 0.5% positive impact as a result of foreign currency translation. The sales decline is primarily attributable to weak North American demand
in both the retail, mobile and industrial hand tools end markets. Partially offsetting the weak North American demand was sales growth in the Asian market, primarily in the first half of 2008, as the rate of growth in the region slowed during the
second half of the year.      The segment s niche businesses experienced a modest sales increase during 2008 as compared to 2007. Higher customer demand
in the segment s engine retarder business, which rebounded from the impact of regulatory changes that resulted in reduced 2007 sales levels, were largely offset by lower demand in the segment s other niche businesses during year, with
particularly lower demand in the fourth quarter.       2007 COMPARED TO 2006       Sales from existing businesses for 2007 reflect the impact of certain regulatory requirements that became effective at the beginning of 2007 which accelerated demand for the Company s engine retarder products in
2006 and adversely impacted demand in 2007. Price increases partially offset the decline in sales and contributed approximately 2.5% of sales growth compared to 2006. The impact of that price increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses.
     Operating profit margins for the segment were 13.1% in 2007 compared to 14.4% in 2006. Costs associated with workforce reductions and adjustments to
production levels to match demand in the engine retarder business decreased operating profit margins by 85 basis in 2007 compared with 2006. Lower sales volumes in the mechanics  hand tool business with Sears/K-Mart and increased lead costs in
the wheel weight business also had a negative impact on the 2007 operating margins. In addition, operating profit margins were adversely impacted by 40 basis points as a result of expenses incurred in connection with a fire in one of the
business  manufacturing facilities in China and costs incurred primarily in the fourth quarter of 2007 to close one facility and reduce headcount.       Overview of Businesses within the Tools   Components Segment       Mechanics  hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of
segment sales in 2007, grew 1.0% in 2007 compared to 2006. The segment s Matco business grew slightly during 2007 as the business benefited from recent product introductions and price increases which offset declines in distributor average
purchase levels during 2007. The retail hand tool business experienced strength in China and in its export business to Europe, as well as certain of its retail channels. This performance, in large part, was offset by a decline in sales to
Sears/K-Mart, the retail hand tools business  largest customer. Year-over-year softness in same-store sales of hand tools at Sears/K-Mart also adversely impacted the business.      The segment s niche businesses experienced mid-single digit sales declines during 2007 as compared to 2006. The impact of the regulatory issue noted above was partially offset by improved sales performance in the
segment s wheel service business during 2007 driven by price increases necessary to recover increased lead costs.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    GROSS PROFIT        
    Gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2008 increased 110 basis points from 2007. Included in the
2008 gross profit margins is $33 million (25 basis points) of restructuring and other related costs. The increase in gross profit margins over 2007 is primarily a result of leverage on increased sales volume, particularly in higher-margin consumable
oriented businesses, the impact of cost-saving initiatives that began in late 2007 and generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired, primarily Tektronix. The impact on gross margins of higher commodity costs prevalent
through the majority of 2008 was partially mitigated by price increases implemented throughout the Company. These higher commodity costs have declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 and, assuming the costs remain at the current levels,
will provide a benefit to the Company in 2009 assuming sales volumes similar to those experienced by the Company during 2008.      The increase in gross profit
margins from continuing operations for 2007 as compared to 2006 resulted from leverage on increased sales volume, the on-going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low-cost region
initiatives and generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired and increases in selling prices. Gross profit margins also improved due to lower-margin sales to USPS in the product identification business comprising a smaller
proportion of sales during 2007 compared to 2006. The gross margins for 2007 also benefited from the inclusion of a full year of results from higher-margin Sybron business as compared to 2006 which only included seven months of Sybron results as a
result of Sybron acquisition in May 2006. The improvements were partially offset by higher commodity costs incurred in 2007 for which full recovery in the form of price increases dilutes reported margins.       OPERATING EXPENSES        
    Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales for 2008 increased 170 basis points from
2007. Included in the 2008 selling, general and administrative expenses is $49 million (40 basis points) of restructuring and other related costs. Other increases in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales are primarily
associated with recently acquired businesses and their higher relative operating expense structures. Increased spending to fund growth opportunities throughout the Company, particularly in emerging markets, also contributed to the growth as a
percentage of sales.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

   Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 60 basis points during 2007 as compared
to 2006 levels. The year-over-year increases resulted from recently acquired businesses (principally Sybron Dental and Vision) which generally have higher operating expense structures, compared to the Company s other businesses, as well as
increased investment in sales forces in emerging markets. These increases were partially offset by operating leverage from higher sales during 2007 as compared to 2006. In addition, the recovery of certain previously written-off indemnity receivable
balances during 2007 favorably impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales.      Research and development expenses,
consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs, as a percentage of sales were approximately 20 basis points higher in 2008 as compared to 2007. The 2007 charge for acquired in-process research and development related to
the Tektronix acquisition, as described below, impacted year-over-year comparisons by 75 basis points. The relatively higher research and development cost structures of recently acquired businesses, primarily Tektronix, and higher investment in
research and development in the Medical Technologies segment were the primary drivers of these year-over-year increases. The Company continues to invest in new product development within all of its businesses, with particular emphasis on the medical
technologies, test and measurement, environmental and product identification businesses.      Research and development expenses were approximately 90 basis
points higher in 2007 as compared to 2006. In 2007, the Company expensed approximately $60.4 million of in-process research and development related to the Tektronix acquisition as compared to approximately $6.5 million of in-process research and
development expensed in 2006 related to the Vision acquisition. Newly acquired companies and their higher, relative research and development cost structures also contributed to the year-over-year increase.       INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS       For a description of the
Company s outstanding indebtedness, please refer to   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financing Activities and Indebtedness  below.      Interest expense of $130 million in 2008 was approximately $20 million higher than 2007 as a result of higher average debt levels during 2008, primarily as a result of borrowings incurred in the fourth quarter 2007 to fund the acquisition
of Tektronix. Interest expense of $110 million in 2007 was approximately $30 million higher than 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher average debt levels during 2007, due to borrowings incurred to fund the 2007 acquisitions of Tektronix and
ChemTreat and the 2006 acquisitions of Sybron and Vision.      Interest income of $10 million, $6 million and $8 million was recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Interest income during 2008 was higher than during 2007 as a result of higher average invested cash balances as less cash was employed in acquisitions during 2008. Interest income in 2007 was lower than 2006 as average invested cash
balances were lower in 2007 compared to 2006 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in late 2006 and throughout 2007 as well as to repurchase shares of Company common stock in 2007. In addition, lower interest rates
prevailing during 2007 contributed to the decrease in interest income.       INCOME TAXES         General        The Company s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries
with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and
examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. The tax effect of significant unusual items or changes in tax regulations is reflected in the period in which
they occur. The Company s effective tax rate for 2008 differs from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. No
provisions for United States income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such  
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As
of December 31, 2008, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $6.3 billion.      The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed
assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for contingent tax liabilities. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with
certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, reserves are adjusted as necessary. However, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Company s estimated tax liabilities in the period the
assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the amount of earnings and/or deductions realized in various jurisdictions in which the Company operates may differ from current estimates.        Year-Over-Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate        The Company s effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 24.7%, 25.8% and 22.4%, respectively.      The Company s 2008 effective tax rate of 24.7% includes the impact of approximately $9.5 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to gains from the net reduction of reserves associated with uncertain tax
positions and discrete items recorded primarily during the second quarter. In addition, the effective tax rate reflects a full year benefit of approximately $10 million from research and experimentation credits which were reinstated with the
enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in the fourth quarter of 2008. The effective tax rate also reflects the impact of the continued growth in earnings outside of the United States. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.      The Company s 2007 effective tax rate from continuing operations of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax
benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods
which resulted in a reduction in the Company s deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by
other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Company s effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the
effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden.      The effective tax rate for 2009 is expected to be approximately 26%.       INFLATION       Market forces during the first nine months of 2008 resulted in generally higher average costs for raw materials, with prices of many raw materials reaching historic price
levels early in the third quarter. These costs generally declined after reaching these historic levels. The Company passed along certain of these cost increases to its customers. The raw materials purchased at record high price levels have largely
been consumed in the production process.       FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT       The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company addresses its
exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Company s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its
operating earnings as a whole.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

    Interest Rate Risk       The Company s short-term debt obligations relate primarily to commercial paper borrowings. Refer to Note 8 for information regarding the Company s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2008. As these
obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. Changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect the Company s results of
operations. In 2008, a 100 percent increase in average market interest rates on the Company s commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Company s interest expense by approximately $29 million. A 100 percent hypothetical
fluctuation is used as the Company s actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2008.      Based on a hypothetical,
immediate 100 basis-point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2008, the fair value of the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt, excluding the LYONs, would decrease by approximately $65 million (the LYONs have not been included in
this calculation as the value of the convertible debt is primarily derived from the LYONs conversion feature). The Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and therefore, with respect
to the fixed-rate long-term debt, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on the Company s results of operations or stockholders  equity.      In connection with the maturity and repayment of the Company s $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes in October 2008, the Company s two associated interest rate swap agreements with an
aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million matured. The swap agreements were accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, and qualified as
 effective  or  perfect  hedges.       Currency Exchange Rate Risk      Exchange rate risk arises from the Company s investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries, as well as from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States. The effect of
a change in currency exchange rates on the Company s net investment in international subsidiaries, net of the translation effect of the Eurobonds, is reflected in the  accumulated other comprehensive income  component of
stockholders  equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2008 (net of the translation effect of the Company s Eurobond Notes, discussed below) would result in a reduction of
stockholders  equity of approximately $396 million.      In addition, although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting
purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates
effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has
expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.     The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates
against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company s consolidated financial statements. The Eurobond Notes described below (which as of December 31, 2008 had
outstanding borrowings in principal amount equivalent to $699 million) and the Euro-denominated portion of the Company s commercial paper program (which as of December 31, 2008 had no outstanding borrowings), provide a natural hedge to a
portion of the Company s European net asset position.      In the fourth quarter of 2008, two wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company entered into
foreign currency forward contracts related to anticipated sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries entering the contracts. The forward contracts, having an aggregate notional amount of 3.4 billion
Japanese Yen ($37.5 million) related to one subsidiary and an aggregate notional amount of 14.5 million Euro ($20.3 million) related to the second subsidiary, will be settled at various dates during the year ending December 31, 2009 in

44   

Table of Contents  

accordance with their terms. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, the Company
accounts for these forward contracts as cash flow hedges. These instruments qualify as  effective  or  perfect  hedges. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate fair value of the forward contracts was approximately $2 million.
      Credit Risk       Financial instruments that potentially
subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, foreign currency forward contracts and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by
counter parties to its financial instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company
does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and
secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.      In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the
diversity of the Company s customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial conditions and obtains collateral or other security when appropriate. Notwithstanding these efforts, the current distress in
the global economy may increase the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES       Management assesses the Company s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities.      Although recent distress in the financial markets and the global economy in general has not had a significant impact on the Company s liquidity as of the filing date of this Report, management continues to
monitor the financial markets and general global economic conditions. The capital markets worldwide, including the United States, have been severely impacted by credit losses, asset write-downs and failures of some financial institutions. This
disruption has impacted credit spreads and pricing on new securities issuances. The Company s credit facility is predominately with institutions that, to date, appear to be relatively unaffected by the disruption. The Company s ability to
access the commercial paper market has also not, to date, been affected adversely by the capital markets  disruption. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its cash flow and other sources
of liquidity, primarily its commercial paper program and committed credit facility, will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses and strategic acquisitions and maintain its capital structure on a short and long-term
basis. For a discussion of risks related to the distress in the financial markets and the global economy in general, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity        

Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Company s liquidity, increased $160 million during 2008, or approximately 9.5%, as compared
to 2007.          

Debt repayments constituted the most significant use of cash during 2008. The Company repaid approximately $1.1 billion of debt, net of new borrowings during this
period.            
   46   

Table of Contents  

The Company acquired seventeen businesses during 2008. Total consideration paid for these acquisitions was approximately $423 million in cash, including transaction
costs and net of cash acquired and $8.5 million of debt assumed.          
     Operating Activities       The Company continues to generate substantial
cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis. Cash flows from
operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, pension funding decisions and other items impact reported cash flows.      Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Company s liquidity, was approximately $1.9 billion for 2008, an increase of $160 million, or
approximately 9.5% as compared to 2007. Earnings growth of $104 million in addition to an increase of approximately $39 million in contributions from operating working capital (which the Company defines as trade accounts receivable plus inventory
less accounts payable) as compared to 2007 contributed to the overall year-over-year increase in operating cash flows. The 2008 operating working capital contribution increased primarily due to strong collections of accounts receivable. Operating
cash flows during 2008 also benefited approximately $83 million from year-over-year increases in stock compensation, depreciation and amortization charges which do not require the use of cash. In addition, non-cash acquisition related charges
incurred related to acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Tektronix had a positive impact on operating cash flow comparisons. Approximately $100 million of additional income tax payments made in
2008 related to continuing operations as compared to 2007 partially offset these positive factors.       Investing Activities       Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash flows from divestitures of businesses or
assets. Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $567 million during 2008 compared to $3.4 billion of net cash used in the comparable period of 2007. Gross capital spending increased $32 million from $162 million
during 2007 to $194 million during 2008, due primarily to capital spending relating to newly acquired businesses and increased spending related to investments in the Company s low-cost region sourcing initiatives, new products and other growth
opportunities. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology systems. In 2009, the Company expects capital spending to exceed $200
million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions.      Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations
was $3.4 billion in 2007 compared to approximately $2.8 billion in 2006. Gross capital spending increased $26 million in 2007 from 2006 levels to $162 million.      As discussed below, the Company completed numerous business acquisitions and divestitures during 2008, 2007 and 2006. All of the acquisitions during this period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Company s financial
statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect the competitive nature of the process by which the businesses are acquired and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these
businesses are expected to bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.       2008 Acquisitions       The Company acquired seventeen companies or
product lines during 2008 for consideration of approximately $423 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired and $8.5 million of debt assumed. Each company acquired manufactures instrumentation and/or supply products in
the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These companies were acquired to complement  
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

existing units of the Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies or Professional Instrumentation segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen
acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $325 million.       2007 Acquisitions and Divestiture       In November 2007, the Company
acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The Company initially financed the acquisition of Tektronix through
the issuance of commercial paper and available cash (including proceeds from the underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock completed on November 2, 2007). Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company issued
$500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 in an underwritten public offering and used the net proceeds from this offering to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Tektronix acquisition.      In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired
in the transaction. The Company financed the acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash.      In addition, the Company acquired ten other companies or product lines during 2007 for consideration of approximately $273 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired, and $4 million of debt assumed. Each company
acquired manufactures instrumentation and/or supply products in the test and measurement, dental technologies, product identification, sensors and controls or environmental instruments markets. These companies were all acquired to complement
existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these ten acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the
company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $123 million.      In addition to the ten acquisitions noted above,
as discussed below, during the first quarter of 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned by the Company as of December 31, 2006 for cash consideration of approximately $96 million.      In July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds. This business, which was part of
the Industrial Technologies segment and designs and manufactures power quality and reliability products and services, had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $130 million in 2006. The Company used the proceeds from this sale for general
corporate purposes, including debt reduction and acquisitions.       2006 Acquisitions       In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sybron for total cash consideration of approximately $2 billion, including transaction costs and net of $94 million of cash acquired, and assumed
approximately $182 million of debt. Sybron is a leading manufacturer of a broad range of products for the dental professional and had revenues of approximately $650 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. Substantially
all of the assumed debt was repaid or refinanced prior to December 31, 2006. Danaher financed the acquisition of shares and the refinancing of the assumed debt primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent
from available cash.      In addition, in the last quarter of 2006 and first quarter of 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Vision for
an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $525 million, including transaction costs and net of $113 million of cash acquired and assumed $1.5 million of debt. Of this purchase price, $96 million was paid during 2007 to acquire the remaining
shares of Vision that the Company did not own as of December 31, 2006 and for transaction costs. The Company financed the transaction through a combination of available cash and the issuance of commercial paper. Vision, based in Australia,
manufactures and markets automated instruments, antibodies and biochemical reagents used for biopsy-based detection of cancer and infectious diseases, and had revenues of $86 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. The
pairing of Vision with the Company s existing  
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

life science instrumentation business, Leica, has significantly broadened the Company s product offerings in the anatomical pathology market and has
expanded the sales and growth opportunities for both the Leica and Vision businesses. The Company believes that the pairing of Leica and Vision also created a broader base for the potential acquisition of complementary businesses in the life
sciences industry.      Total consideration for the other nine businesses acquired during 2006 was approximately $213 million in cash, including transaction
costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each manufactures instrumentation and/or supply products in the test and measurement, acute care diagnostics, water quality, product identification or sensors and controls markets. These companies were all
acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these nine acquired businesses, at the date of their respective acquisitions, in
each case based on the acquired company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $140 million.      In
the first half of 2006, the Company purchased and subsequently sold shares of First Technology plc, a U.K. based public company, in connection with the Company s unsuccessful bid to acquire First Technology. First Technology also paid the
Company a break-up fee of approximately $3 million. During the second quarter of 2006 the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $14 million ($8.9 million after-tax, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share) in connection with these
matters, net of related transaction costs, which is included in  other expense (income), net  in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.       Financing Activities and Indebtedness       Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the
issuance of commercial paper, common stock and notes, repayments of indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities used cash of $1.1 billion during 2008 compared to $1.7 billion of cash
provided during 2007. The year-over-year change was primarily due to repayment of a substantial portion of the commercial paper indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisitions of Tektronix and ChemTreat in 2007; the repurchase of shares of Danaher
common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program; repayment of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 (net of commercial paper issued to refinance such repayment); and dividends paid during 2008.      Total debt was $2,619 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $3,726 million at December 31, 2007. The Company s debt as of December 31, 2008 was as
follows:       

$624 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper;          

The Company does
not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except in connection with the change of control triggers described as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes and the 2018
Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of
the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of 2018 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes. The Company s outstanding indentures and comparable instruments also contain customary covenants
including for example limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Company s operations and as of December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with
all of its debt covenants. For a discussion of the risks related to our indebtedness, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.          
   49   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility       The Company satisfies its short-term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper. Under the Company s U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a
subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4.0 billion. Since the Credit Facility (described below) provides credit support for the program, the
$1.45 billion of availability under the Credit Facility has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $1.45 billion the maximum amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Commercial paper notes are sold at a
discount and have a maturity of not more than 90 days from the date of issuance. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including financing acquisitions. The Company classifies the borrowings under the commercial
paper program as long-term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as supported by the availability of the Credit Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the
balance sheet date.      Credit support for part of the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.45 billion multicurrency revolving credit
facility (the  Credit Facility ) which expires on April 25, 2012. The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Company s option, (1) a
LIBOR-based formula that is dependent in part on the Company s credit rating, or (2) a formula based on Bank of America s prime rate or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a
particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus shareholders  equity) as of
the last day of each fiscal quarter of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of our
commercial paper program. We expect to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facility so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our outstanding commercial paper as it
matures.      During 2008, the Company utilized its commercial paper program to finance the repayment of the 6.1% notes due 2008. During 2007, the Company
utilized its commercial paper program (as well as operating cash flow and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering and December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes), to fund the acquisitions of ChemTreat and Tektronix. As of
December 31, 2008, $624 million was outstanding under the Company s U.S. dollar commercial paper program with a weighted average interest rate of 1.0% and an average maturity of approximately 13 days. As of December 31, 2008, there
was no outstanding Euro-denominated commercial paper.      Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is
affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in the Company s credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Company s commercial paper program and Credit Facility, and could limit or
preclude the Company s ability to issue commercial paper. We have not experienced difficulty in accessing the commercial paper market to date. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market
conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available operating cash flow and our Credit Facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our Credit Facility could be higher than the cost
of commercial paper borrowings.      In connection with the financing of the Tektronix acquisition in November 2007, the Company entered into a $1.9 billion
unsecured revolving bridge loan facility (the  Bridge Facility ), which provided additional credit support for the commercial paper program and was also available for working capital and other corporate purposes. In December 2007, Danaher
reduced the amount of the Bridge Facility to $1.0 billion to minimize maintenance costs, and in May 2008 Danaher further reduced the facility to $0.5 billion. The Bridge Facility expired on November 11, 2008. There were no borrowings under
either the Credit Facility or the Bridge Facility during 2008.       Other Long-Term Indebtedness       In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018. The net proceeds,
after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were  
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may
redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus
25 basis points.      On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment
obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were  496 million ($627 million
based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Company s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company may redeem the notes
upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed.      In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for
general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 14.5352 shares
of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2008, an aggregate of approximately
68,000 shares of Danaher common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. As of December 31, 2008, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion.
The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and/or Company common stock, at the Company s option,
on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for
cash.      Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to
July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of
contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds  average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such
quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1.4 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2008. Except for the contingent interest
described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity.      The $250 million of 6.1% notes due 2008 matured October 15, 2008
and were repaid from the proceeds of commercial paper borrowings.       Shelf Registration Statement and Common Stock Offering       The Company has a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock,
warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance.      In November 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of
6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share off the shelf registration statement. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used
to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In December 2007, the Company also issued the 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018 off the shelf registration statement.       Stock Repurchase Program       On April 21, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million
shares of the Company s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no  
       
   51   

Table of Contents  

expiration date for the Company s repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Company s
management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company s equity
compensation plans and for other corporate purposes.      During 2008, the Company repurchased 1.38 million shares of Company common stock in open market
transactions at a cost of $74 million. During 2007, the Company repurchased 1.64 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $117 million. The 2008 and 2007 repurchases were funded from available cash and
from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 2 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further
repurchases using the Company s available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper.       Dividends       The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.03 per share that was paid on January 30, 2009 to holders of record on December 26, 2008. Aggregate cash
payments for dividends during 2008 were $38 million.       Cash and Cash Requirements       The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs and capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its pension plans as required, pay dividends to
shareholders and repurchase shares of the Company s common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements and may borrow under existing commercial paper programs or the
Credit Facility or, subject to availability, access the capital markets as needed for liquidity. Subject to market conditions and management s judgment, the Company intends to seek to publicly issue debt securities prior to the end of the first
quarter of 2009, the proceeds of which would be used to repay a portion of our outstanding commercial paper and/or for other general, corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2008, the Company held $393 million of cash and cash equivalents that
were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less. Of this amount, approximately $373 million was held outside the United States; repatriation of these amounts is either restricted or prohibited by
local laws and/or would potentially trigger United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits, as discussed below.      The
Company s cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to
ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Wherever possible, cash management is centralized and intra-company financing is used to provide working capital to the Company s operations. Most of the cash
balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances
is restricted or prohibited by local laws. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intra-company transfer of funds, the Company s intent is that cash balances would remain in the foreign country and it would meet United States liquidity
needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both.      The provisions of the U.S. Pension Protection Act of 2006, enacted in August 2006 changed
the minimum funding requirements for the Company s U.S. pension plan beginning in 2009. During 2009, the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. pension plan are not expected to be significant. Funding requirements for the
U.S. pension may become more significant commencing in the year ended December 31, 2010; however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, underlying asset returns and the impact of recent legislative
activity associated with pension funding obligations. Cash contributions during 2009 related to the Company s non-U.S. pension plans are expected to be approximately $30 million.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

    CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS       The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008 under (1) long-term debt obligations, (2) leases,
(3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company s balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $536 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of
which is uncertain. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits.       

(a)  
  As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.     

(b)  
  Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long-term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table.     

(c)  
  Interest payments on long-term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2008. Certain of these projected interest payments
may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates.     

(d)  
  As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.     

(e)  
  Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum
quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.     

(f)  
  Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating costs guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs,
self-insurance and litigation claims, post-retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations are based upon management s
estimates over the terms of these arrangements and are largely based upon historical experience.           
   53   

Table of Contents  

    OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS       The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off-balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company.       
    Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Company s obligations
under short-term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for manufacture and for performance under specific manufacturing agreements. Guarantees are generally issued in connection with certain transactions with vendors, suppliers, and
financing counterparties and governmental entities.      In connection with five acquisitions, the Company has entered into agreements with the respective
sellers to pay certain amounts in the future as additional purchase price. The Company enters into these types of arrangements to help bridge differences of opinion that the Company and the sellers may have over the appropriate value of the acquired
business. The Company could pay nothing in the aggregate pursuant to these agreements, or a maximum of up to $72.4 million over the next 15 years depending on the performance of the respective businesses during the specified performance period.
       Other Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements        The
Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such
as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations,
warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the Company does not believe that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on the
Company s financial position, results of operations or liquidity.      Due to the Company s downsizing of certain operations pursuant to
acquisitions, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master
lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company s financial position, results of operations or liquidity.      The Company s Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a
party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. 
 Danaher s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher intends to execute with each of its directors and executive officers an indemnification agreement with Danaher which will provide for
substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher will agree to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding.   While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a
significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

   Except as described above, as of December 31, 2008 the Company has not entered into any off-balance sheet financing
arrangements and has no unconsolidated special purpose entities.       Legal Proceedings       Please refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain litigation matters.      In addition to the litigation matters noted under  Item 1. Business   Regulatory Matters   Environmental, Health   Safety , the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of
litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Company s products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, commercial
disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or
representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation,
property, cargo, automobile, aviation, crime, fiduciary, product, general liability, and directors  and officers  liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes
cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be
insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. Based upon the Company s experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows,
financial position, or results of operations.      The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover certain liability costs
in excess of predetermined retained amounts. For general liability risk (which includes product liability) and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses ( stop loss  insurance) and
must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self-insured retention. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for
incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of outside risk insurance professionals for product liability. In addition, outside risk insurances professionals assist in
the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Company s specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. While the Company actively
pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers for claims paid associated with these risks, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical
matters of a similar nature and magnitude. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2008 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs
will differ from this estimate. If the risk insurance reserves established are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the
Company s net earnings. Please see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our accruals for self-insurance and litigation liability.      For a discussion of additional risks related to existing and potential legal proceedings, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.        CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES       Management s discussion and analysis of the Company s financial condition and
results of operations are based upon the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from
other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

   The Company believes the following critical accounting policies are most critical to an understanding of its financial
statements because they inherently involve significant judgments and uncertainties. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.
      Accounts receivable . The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Company s
customers to make required payments. The Company estimates its anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on historical collection history as well as by specifically reserving for known doubtful accounts. Estimating losses from doubtful
accounts is inherently uncertain because the amount of such losses depends substantially on the financial condition of the Company s customers, and the Company typically has limited visibility as to the specific financial state of its
customers. Recent deterioration in overall global economic conditions and worldwide credit markets heightens the uncertainties related to customers  ability to pay and may increase the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. If the
financial condition of the Company s customers were to deteriorate beyond estimates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, the Company would be required to write off additional accounts receivable balances, which would
adversely impact the Company s net earnings and financial condition.       Inventories . The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market
value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing
competition in many of the Company s markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Company s control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are
less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Company s net earnings and financial condition.       Acquired intangibles . The Company s business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period
amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur. The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, the accounting standard for goodwill, which requires that the Company, on an
annual basis, calculate the fair value of the reporting units that contain the goodwill and compare that to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if impairment exists. Impairment testing must take place more often if circumstances or
events indicate a change in the impairment status. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units using various valuation techniques with the initial estimate being calculated using a market based approach where fair value is estimated
based on EBITDA multiples determined by available precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and reliability of the precedent transaction
EBITDA multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including recent operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and other market data. To the extent the fair value as estimated by the
market based approach exceeds the carrying value of a reporting unit by less than 30%, management performs an analysis using the income approach to estimate fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis related to that reporting unit. Once
completed, the results of the income and market approaches are reconciled and compared. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values.
There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair
value of its reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If actual results are not consistent with management s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be
taken against net earnings.      The Company s annual goodwill impairment analysis, as described above, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess
of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company s reporting units as of the first day of the Company s fiscal fourth quarter, the
annual testing date, ranged from approximately 1.4% to approximately 421%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of
each reporting unit. The results (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the  
       
   56   

Table of Contents  

respective reporting unit) from this hypothetical 10% decrease in fair value ranged from a short fall of approximately 9% to an excess of approximately 369%
for each of the Company s reporting units. The carrying value of the Company s individual reporting units ranges from approximately $13 million to approximately $2.5 billion.       Long-lived assets . The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets
to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by
the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by the Company relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and its ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying
amounts of such assets and are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance and anticipated future
cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining the fair value of long-lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of the Company s long-lived assets may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than the
Company s estimates, long-lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings.       Purchase
accounting . In connection with its acquisitions, the Company formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95-3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection
with a Purchase Business Combination (EITF No. 95-3), the Company accrues estimates for certain of the integration costs anticipated at the date of acquisition, including personnel reductions and facility closures or restructurings. Adjustments
to these estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. The Company establishes these accruals based on information obtained during the due diligence process, the Company s experience in acquiring other
companies, and information obtained after the closing about the acquired company s business, assets and liabilities. The accruals established by the Company are inherently uncertain because they are based on limited information on the fair
value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business as well as the uncertainty of the cost to execute the restructuring plans for the business. If the accruals established by the Company are insufficient to account for all of the activities
required to restructure the acquired entity, the Company would be required to incur an expense, which would adversely affect the Company s net earnings. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is
recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances. As a result of the implementation of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations,  that became effective January 1, 2009,
the provisions of EITF 95-3 will not be applicable to acquisitions completed subsequent to January 1, 2009. Acquisitions completed prior to December 31, 2008 will continue to apply the provisions of EITF 95-3. Refer to  New Accounting
Standards  below for additional information.       Environmental . The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and
environmental-related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental
studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that potential remediation liability for properties currently or previously owned is probable and reasonably estimable, it accrues the total estimated costs,
including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. We also estimate our exposure for probable environmental-related personal injury claims and accrue for this estimated liability. While the Company actively pursues
insurance recoveries as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realization is deemed probable.      The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Company s involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent
of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of
joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. As such, there can be no assurance that the
Company s estimates of environmental liabilities will not change. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. If the environmental reserves established by the Company are inadequate,
the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s net earnings.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

    Contingent Liabilities . As discussed above, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation
incidental to its business. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well
as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate, recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of legal counsel and, if applicable, other professionals. These assessments require judgments concerning
matters such as the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the
future due to new developments or changes in the Company s settlement strategy. For a discussion of these contingencies, including management s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, refer to
Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss
incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s net earnings.      As discussed above under   Legal
Proceedings , the Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover certain liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts for these liabilities and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to
amounts within the self-insured retention. Please see   Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of how reserves are established for self-insurance and litigation liability. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk
insurance reserves as of December 31, 2008 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. If the risk insurance reserves established are inadequate, the
Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s net earnings.       Revenue Recognition : The Company derives revenues primarily from the sale of professional, industrial, medical and consumer products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for
recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectibility of the balance must be reasonably assured. The
Company s standard terms of sale are FOB Shipping Point and, as such, the Company principally records revenue for product sale upon shipment. If any significant obligations to the customer with respect to such sale remain to be fulfilled
following shipment, typically involving obligations relating to installation and acceptance by the buyer, revenue recognition is deferred until such obligations have been fulfilled. Product returns consist of estimated returns for products sold and
are recorded as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of sale as required by SFAS No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists. Customer allowances and rebates, consisting primarily of volume discounts and other short-term
incentive programs, are recorded as a reduction in reported revenues at the time of sale because these allowances reflect a reduction in the purchase price for the products purchased in accordance with EITF 01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given
by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of a Vendor s Products). Product returns, customer allowances and rebates are estimated based on historical experience and known trends. Revenue related to maintenance agreements is recognized as
revenue over the term of the agreement as required by FASB Technical Bulletin 90-1, Accounting for Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts.      Revenues for contractual arrangements with multiple elements are allocated pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. In the case of
arrangements that include more than incidental software, the provisions of AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain
Transactions, are applied. Revenues are recognized for the separate elements when the product or services have value on a stand-alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exist (or in the case of software related products, vendor specific
objective evidence of fair value) and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control. While
determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair value and the separate elements are identifiable as those elements are also sold unaccompanied by other elements.       Share-Based Compensation : The Company accounts for share-based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123
(revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options,  
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

RSUs and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, the
Company recognizes equity-based compensation expense net of an estimated forfeiture rate and recognizes compensation cost for only those shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award.      Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the
expected life of the share-based payment awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent management s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent
uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our equity-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate
the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, the equity-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we
have recorded in the current period.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits : Certain of the Company s employees and retired employees are
covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are provided health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company accounts for its pension and
postretirement plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers  Accounting for Pensions; SFAS No. 106, Employers  Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions; and SFAS No. 158 ,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106 require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or
income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans is computed using actuarial valuations.      Calculations of the amount of pension and other
postretirement benefits costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations. These include assumptions the Company makes relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators
can result in changes in the assumptions used by the Company. The assumptions used in the actuarial valuation include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other
factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may affect the
Company s financial position or results of operations. For the United States plan, the Company used a 6.25% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2008, which represents
an increase of 25 basis points in the discount rate from December 31, 2007. For non-U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average
expected benefit payout under the plan. A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the U.S. and non-U.S. net obligation by $58 million ($38 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the
financial statements at December 31, 2008.      For 2008, the expected long-term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the United States
plan was estimated at 8% which is the same as the rate used in 2007. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S.
plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity
investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Pension benefit for the U.S. plan for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $5 million (or $3 million on an after-tax
basis), compared with pension expense of $13 million (or $8 million on an after-tax basis) for this plan in 2007. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 0.5%, pension expense for 2008 would have increased $6
million (or $4 million on an after-tax basis). The Company made no contributions to the U.S. plan in 2008. The Company s non-U.S. plan assets are comprised of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by
the administrator of each plan. The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.5% to 8.25% for 2008 and ranged from 0.75% to 7.5% for
2007.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).  This statement requires a  
       
   59   

Table of Contents  

company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s over funded status or a liability for a plan s under
funded status; (b) measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year, and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the
year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income). The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements were effective and adopted by the Company as of the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2006. The adoption of the recognition provisions of the standard reduced the amount of pension and other post-retirement liabilities as of December 31, 2006 by approximately $23 million and increased stockholders equity by
approximately $15.6 million due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over-funded positions in certain of the Company s non-US pension plans and due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the
Company s U.S. based retiree benefit program.      The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the
employer s fiscal year end statement of financial position was effective and adopted by the Company as of the year ended December 31, 2008. Prior to adoption of the measurement date provisions, the majority of the Company s
pension and postretirement plans used a September 30 measurement date. The adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 increased long-term liabilities by approximately $6 million and decreased stockholders  equity by
approximately $4 million. There was no effect on the Company s results of operations or cash flows.      The provisions of the U.S. Pension Protection Act
of 2006, enacted in August 2006 changed the minimum funding requirements for the Company s U.S. pension plan beginning in 2009. During 2009, the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. pension plan are not expected to be
significant. Funding requirements for the U.S. pension may become more significant commencing in the year ending December 31, 2010; however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, underlying asset returns
and the impact of recent legislative activity associated with pension funding obligations. Cash contributions during 2009 related to the Company s non-U.S. pension plans are expected to be approximately $30 million.       NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS       In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS No. 141R) and SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  ( SFAS No. 160 ). SFAS 141R establishes principles
and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R also
establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 160 clarifies the classification of noncontrolling interests in the financial statements and the accounting
for and reporting of transactions between the reporting entity and holders of such noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2008 and impacts the accounting for acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 141R will likely have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations, however, the
magnitude of that impact is dependent on the frequency and relative size of the acquisitions completed by the Company. In general, more frequent acquisition activity and relatively larger acquisitions will have a more significant impact. The
adoption of SFAS No. 160 on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations is not expected to be significant.      In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to investors  requests
for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other
standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value, and does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS No. 157 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations.      In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159).
SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair  
       
   60   

Table of Contents  

value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure accounts and loans receivable, available-for-sale and held-to-maturity
securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. Other eligible items include firm commitments for financial instruments that otherwise would not be recognized at inception and non-cash warranty obligations where
a warrantor is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred, such as debt issuance
costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and generally made on an instrument-by-instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. At the adoption date, unrealized gains and losses on
existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 was
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations.
     In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48)  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109 , to clarify certain aspects of accounting for uncertain tax positions, including issues related to the recognition and measurement of those tax positions. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007, as
required. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease of $63 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings.

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         The
information required by this item is included under  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          
   61   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA          Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       The management of the Company is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.      The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this
assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework . Based on this assessment, management concluded
that, as of December 31, 2008, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective.      The Company s independent auditors
have issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. This report dated February 23, 2009 appears on page 63 of this Form 10-K.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
      The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation:      We have audited Danaher Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Danaher Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Danaher Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Danaher Corporation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 and our report dated February 23, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       
       
   63   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation:      We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2008 the Company adopted the measurement
date provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  As discussed in Note 13, in 2007 the Company adopted
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB No. 109.  Also as discussed in Note 1, in 2006 the Company adopted the
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 158.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), Danaher Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       
       
   64   

Table of Contents  

    DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS        
    See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

    DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        
    See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

    DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS       Year Ended December 31 ($ in thousands)        
    See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

    DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        ($ and shares in thousands)        
    See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

(1)   
   BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:          Business  Danaher Corporation designs, manufactures and markets professional, medical, industrial, commercial and consumer products and services which are typically characterized by strong brand names, proprietary technology and
major market positions in four business segments: Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies and Tools   Components. Businesses in the Professional Instrumentation segment offer professional and technical
customers various products and services that are used to enable or enhance the performance of their work. The Professional Instrumentation segment encompasses two strategic lines of business environmental and test and measurement. These
businesses produce and sell bench top and compact, professional electronic test tools and calibration equipment, a variety of video test and monitoring products, network management solutions, network diagnostic equipment and related services; water
quality instrumentation and consumables and ultraviolet disinfection systems; and retail/commercial petroleum products and services, including underground storage tank leak detection and vapor recovery systems. The Medical Technologies segment
consists of businesses that offer research and clinical medical professionals various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work. Businesses in the Industrial Technologies segment manufacture products and
sub-systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end-products. Many of the businesses also provide
services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic lines of business product identification and
motion, and two focused niche businesses, aerospace and defense and sensors   controls. These businesses produce and sell product identification equipment and consumables; motion, position, speed, temperature, and level instruments and
sensing devices; liquid flow and quality measuring devices; aerospace safety devices and defense articles; and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling devices. The Tools   Components segment is one of the largest producers and
distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics  hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include toolboxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks and
custom-designed fasteners and components.       Accounting Principles  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.       Use of Estimates  The preparation of
these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and
related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical experience, current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However,
uncertainties associated with the continuing economic downturn and disruption in financial markets increases the possibility that actual results may differ from these estimates. For example, if one or more of our significant customers, or a group of
less significant customers, becomes insolvent, the Company may be faced with uncollectible accounts receivable in excess of established reserves, preference actions that could require us to repay to the bankruptcy estate payments recently received
from such customers, increased obsolete inventory and/or impairment of long-lived assets due to underutilized manufacturing capacity.       Cash and
Equivalents  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.       Inventory Valuation  Inventories include the costs of material, labor and overhead. Depending on the business, domestic inventories are stated at either the lower of cost or market using the last-in, first-out method (LIFO) or
the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventories held outside the United States are primarily stated at the lower of cost or market using the FIFO method.       Property, Plant and Equipment  Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. The provision for depreciation has been computed principally by the
straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives (3 to 35 years) of the depreciable assets.       Other Assets  Other assets include
principally noncurrent trade receivables, other investments, and capitalized costs associated with obtaining financings which are amortized over the term of the related debt.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

    Fair Value of Financial Instruments  For cash and equivalents, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of
fair value. For long-term debt, where quoted market prices are not available, rates available for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities are used to estimate the fair value of existing debt.       Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  Goodwill and other intangible assets result from the Company s acquisition of existing businesses. In accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, amortization of recorded goodwill balances ceased effective January 1, 2002. However, amortization of certain identifiable intangible assets continues over the estimated
useful lives of the identified asset. Refer to Notes 2 and 6 for additional information.       Revenue Recognition  As described above, the Company
derives revenues primarily from the sale of professional, medical, industrial, commercial and consumer products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale,
delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectibility of the balance must be reasonably assured. The Company s standard terms of sale are FOB Shipping
Point and, as such, the Company principally records revenue for product sales upon shipment. If any significant obligations to the customer with respect to such sale remain to be fulfilled following shipment, typically involving obligations relating
to installation and acceptance by the buyer, revenue recognition is deferred until such obligations have been fulfilled. Product returns consist of estimated returns for products sold and are recorded as a reduction in reported revenues at the time
of sale as required by SFAS No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists. Customer allowances and rebates, consisting primarily of volume discounts and other short-term incentive programs, are recorded as a reduction in reported
revenues at the time of sale because these allowances reflect a reduction in the purchase price for the products purchased in accordance with EITF 01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (including a Reseller of a
Vendor s Products). Product returns, customer allowances and rebates are estimated based on historical experience and known trends. Revenue related to maintenance agreements is recognized as revenue over the term of the agreement as required by
FASB Technical Bulletin 90-1, Accounting for Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts.      Revenues for contractual arrangements
with multiple elements are allocated pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. In the case of arrangements that include more than incidental software, the provisions of AICPA
Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions, are applied. Revenues are recognized for the separate elements when
the product or services have value on a stand-alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists (or in the case of software related products, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value) and, in arrangements that include a general right
of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control. While determining fair value and identifying separate elements require judgment, generally
fair value and the separate elements are identifiable as those elements are also sold unaccompanied by other elements.       Shipping and
Handling  Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of sales. Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are included in sales.       Research and Development  The Company conducts research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products, enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of the Company s existing
products and expanding the applications for which uses of the Company s products are appropriate. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.       Income Taxes  The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Refer to Note 13 for additional information.       Restructuring   the Company periodically initiates restructuring activities to appropriately position the Company s cost base for prevailing economic conditions and associated customer demand. The
Company accounts for these restructuring activities in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for the Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.  Refer to Note 16 for additional information.   
     
   70   

Table of Contents  

    Foreign Currency Translation  Exchange rate adjustments resulting from foreign currency transactions are
recognized in net earnings, whereas adjustments resulting from the translation of financial statements are reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders  equity. Net foreign currency transaction gains or
losses were not material in any of the years presented.       Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  The components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) are summarized below. Foreign currency translation adjustments are generally not adjusted for income taxes as they relate to indefinite investments in non-US subsidiaries ($ in millions).       
    See Notes 9 and 10 for additional information related to the minimum pension liability and unrecognized pension
and post-retirement cost components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).       Accounting for Stock Options   The Company accounts for
share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including
stock options, RSUs and restricted shares, based on the fair market value of the award as of the grant date. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, the Company recognizes equity-based compensation expense net of an
estimated forfeiture rate and recognizes compensation cost for only those shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award.       Pension   Post Retirement Benefit Plans  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).  This statement requires a company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s over funded status or a liability for a plan s under
funded status; (b) measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year, and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the
year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income). The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements were effective and adopted by the Company as of the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2006. The adoption of the recognition provisions of the standard reduced the amount of pension and other post-retirement liabilities as of December 31, 2006 by approximately $23 million and increased stockholders equity by
approximately $15.6 million due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over-funded positions in certain of the Company s non-US pension plans and due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the
Company s U.S. based retiree benefit program.      The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the
employer s fiscal year end statement of financial position was effective and adopted by the Company as of the year ended December 31, 2008. Prior to adoption of the measurement date provisions, the majority of the Company s
pension and postretirement plans used a September 30 measurement date. The adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 increased long-term liabilities by approximately $6 million and decreased stockholders  equity by
approximately $4 million. There was no effect on the Company s results of operations or cash flows.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

    New Accounting Pronouncements  See Note 19.       

(2)   
   ACQUISITIONS:         The Company has completed a number of acquisitions
during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 that either strategically fit within the Company s existing business portfolio or expand the Company s portfolio into a new and attractive business area. All of these
acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases and have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Company s financial statements. This goodwill arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect a number of factors
including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses; the multiple to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers; the competitive nature of the process by which the
Company acquired the business; and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations.      The Company
makes an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based upon its understanding of the fair market value of the acquired assets and liabilities. The Company obtains this information during due diligence and through other
sources. In the months after closing, as the Company obtains additional information about these assets and liabilities and learns more about the newly acquired business, it is able to refine the estimates of fair market value and more accurately
allocate the purchase price. Examples of factors and information that the Company uses to refine the allocations include: tangible and intangible asset appraisals; cost data related to redundant facilities; employee/personnel data related to
redundant functions; product line integration and rationalization information; management capabilities; and information systems compatibilities. The only items considered for subsequent adjustment are items identified as of the acquisition date. The
Company has reflected the impact of any significant pre-acquisition contingencies (as contemplated by SFAS No. 38, Accounting for Preacquisition Contingencies of Purchased Enterprises) related to its 2007 acquisitions in the final purchase
price allocation for these acquisitions. The Company is continuing to evaluate certain pre-acquisition contingencies associated with certain of its 2008 acquisitions and will make appropriate adjustments to the purchase price allocation prior to the
one-year anniversary of the acquisition, as required.      The following briefly describes the Company s acquisition and divestiture activity for the
three years ended December 31, 2008.      The Company acquired seventeen companies or product lines during 2008 for consideration of approximately $423
million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired and $8 million of debt assumed. Each company acquired manufactures instrumentation and/or supply products in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or
test and measurement markets. These companies were acquired to complement existing units of the Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies or Professional Instrumentation segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen acquired businesses
at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $325 million. The Company has recorded a preliminary estimate of goodwill
related to these acquisitions of $265 million reflecting the strategic fit and revenue and earnings growth potential of these businesses. The Company will make appropriate adjustments to the purchase price allocation prior to the one-year
anniversary of the acquisition, as required.      In November 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. (Tektronix) for total
cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The Company initially financed the acquisition of Tektronix through the issuance of commercial paper and available cash (including
proceeds from the underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock completed on November 2, 2007   refer to Note 15). Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company issued $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due
2018 in an underwritten public offering (refer to Note 8) and used the net proceeds from this offering to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Tektronix acquisition. Tektronix is a leading supplier of test, measurement, and
monitoring products, solutions and services for the communications, computer, consumer electronics, and education industries   as well as military/aerospace, semiconductor, and a broad range of other industries worldwide and had revenues of
$1.1 billion in its most recent completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. Tektronix is part of the Company s test and measurement business and its results are reported within the Professional Instrumentation segment. The $1.9 billion of
goodwill recorded related to the acquisition of  
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

Tektronix arose primarily due to the strategic fit of Tektronix with existing operations, the worldwide leadership position of Tektronix in its served
markets and the revenue and earnings growth potential of this business. In addition, the Company allocated $60.4 million of the purchase price to in-process research and development reflecting the estimated fair value of this acquired intangible
asset. This amount was immediately expensed in 2007.      In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat, Inc. (ChemTreat) for a
cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. The Company financed the acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash.
ChemTreat is a leading provider of industrial water treatment products and services, and had annual revenues of $200 million in its most recent completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. ChemTreat is part of the Company s environmental
business and its results are reported within the Professional Instrumentation segment. The Company recorded $331 million of goodwill related to the acquisition of ChemTreat which arose primarily due to the expected revenue and earnings growth of
this business.      In addition to completing the acquisitions of Tektronix and ChemTreat, the Company acquired ten other companies or product lines during
2007. Total consideration for these ten acquisitions was approximately $273 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired, and $4 million of debt assumed. Each company acquired manufactures instrumentation and/or supply
products in the test and measurement, dental technologies, product identification, sensors and controls or environmental instruments markets. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical
Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The Company recorded an aggregate of $250 million of goodwill related to these acquired businesses reflecting the strategic fit and revenue and earnings growth potential of these businesses. The
aggregate annual sales of these ten acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $123 million.      In the first quarter of 2007 and the last quarter of 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Vision Systems Limited (Vision) for an aggregate cash
purchase price of approximately $525 million, including transaction costs and net of $113 million of cash acquired, and assumed debt of $1.5 million. Of this purchase price, $96 million was paid during 2007 to acquire the remaining shares of Vision
that the Company did not own as of December 31, 2006 and for transaction costs. The Company financed the transaction through a combination of available cash and the issuance of commercial paper. Vision, based in Australia, manufactures and
markets automated instruments, antibodies and biochemical reagents used for biopsy-based detection of cancer and infectious diseases, and had revenues of $86 million in its most recent completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. The Vision
acquisition resulted in the recognition of goodwill of $432 million, of which $76 million was recorded in 2007. Goodwill associated with this acquisition primarily relates to Vision s future revenue growth and earnings potential.      In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc. (Sybron Dental) for total consideration of approximately $2 billion,
including transaction costs and net of approximately $94 million of cash acquired, and assumed approximately $182 million of debt. Substantially all of the assumed debt was subsequently repaid or refinanced prior to December 31, 2006. Danaher
financed the acquisition of shares and the refinancing of the assumed debt primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. The Sybron acquisition resulted in the recognition of goodwill of
$1.5 billion primarily related to Sybron s future earnings and cash flow potential and the world-wide leadership position of Sybron in many of its served markets.      In addition to Sybron Dental and Vision, the Company acquired nine other companies and product lines in 2006 for total consideration of approximately $213 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash
acquired. In general, each company manufactures instrumentation and/or supply products in the test and measurement, acute care diagnostics, water quality, product identification, or sensors and controls markets. These companies were all acquired to
complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The Company recorded an aggregate of $130 million of goodwill related to these acquired businesses reflecting the strategic fit
and revenue and earnings growth potential of these businesses. The aggregated annual sales of these nine acquired businesses at the dates of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired company s revenues for its last
completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $140 million.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

   In January 2006, the Company commenced an all cash tender offer for all of the outstanding ordinary shares of First
Technology plc, a U.K. - based public company. In connection with the offer, the Company acquired an aggregate of 19.5% of First Technology s issued share capital for $84 million. A competing bidder subsequently made an offer that
surpassed the Company s bid, and as a result the Company allowed its offer for First Technology to lapse. The Company tendered its shares into the other bidder s offer and on April 7, 2006 received proceeds of $98 million from
the sale of these shares, in addition to a $3 million break-up fee paid by First Technology to the Company. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $14 million ($8.9 million after-tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) upon the sale of
these securities including the related break-up fee, net of related transaction costs during the year ended December 31, 2006, which is included in  other (income) expense, net  in the accompanying Statement of Earnings.   
  The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for all acquisitions consummated
during 2008, 2007, and 2006 and the individually significant acquisitions in 2007 and 2006 discussed above ($ in thousands):       

74   

Table of Contents  

The unaudited pro forma information for the periods set forth below gives effect to the above noted acquisitions
as if they had occurred at the beginning of the period. The pro forma information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that actually would have been achieved had the acquisitions
been consummated as of that time (unaudited, $ in thousands except per share amounts):       
    In connection with its acquisitions, the Company assesses and formulates a plan related to the future integration
of the acquired entity. This process begins during the due diligence process and is concluded within 12 months of the acquisition. The Company accrues estimates for certain costs, related primarily to personnel reductions and facility closures or
restructurings, anticipated at the date of acquisition, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination.  Adjustments to these
estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, reducing recorded goodwill
balances. Costs incurred in excess of the recorded accruals are expensed as incurred. The Company is still finalizing its restructuring plans with respect to certain of its 2008 acquisitions and will adjust current accrual levels to reflect such
restructuring plans as such plans are finalized. As referenced in Note 19, under SFAS No. 141R, all restructuring costs associated with transactions that close in 2009 will be expensed as incurred rather than included as a component of the
purchase price of the business.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

   Accrued liabilities associated with these exit activities include the following ($ in thousands):       
    The adjustments to previously provided reserves reflect finalization of the restructuring plans. All adjustments
to the previously provided reserves resulted in adjustments to goodwill in accordance with EITF 95-3. Involuntary employee termination benefits are presented as a component of the Company s compensation and benefits accrual included in accrued
expenses in the accompanying balance sheet. Facility closure and restructuring costs are reflected in other accrued expenses. Refer to Note 7.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

(3)   
    DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS          In July 2007, the Company
completed the sale of its power quality business for a sale price of $275 million in cash, net of transaction costs, and recorded an after-tax gain of $150 million ($0.45 per diluted share). The power quality business designs, makes and sells power
quality and reliability products and services, and prior to the sale was part of the Company s Industrial Technologies segment. The Company has reported the power quality business as a discontinued operation in this Form 10-K in accordance with
SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect the power quality business as a discontinued operation. The Company
allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense to discontinued operations in accordance with EITF 87-24, Allocation of Interest to Discontinued Operations.      The key components of income from discontinued operations related to the power quality business for the years ended December 31 were as follows ($ in thousands):       

(4)   
   INVENTORY:         The classes of inventory as of December 31 are
summarized as follows ($ in thousands):       
    If the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method had been used for inventories valued at LIFO cost, such inventories would
have been $24 million and $18 million higher at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

(5)   
   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:         The classes of property, plant and
equipment as of December 31 are summarized as follows ($ in thousands):       

(6)   
   GOODWILL   OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS:         As discussed in Note
2, goodwill arises from the excess of the purchase price for acquired businesses exceeding the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired. Management assesses goodwill for impairment for each of its reporting units at least annually at
the beginning of the fourth quarter or as  triggering  events occur. In making its assessment of goodwill impairment, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated
future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. The Company s annual impairment test was performed in the fourth quarters of 2008, 2007 and 2006 and no impairment was identified. The factors used by management in its impairment
analysis are inherently subject to uncertainty, particularly in light of the recent deterioration in overall global economic conditions and worldwide credit markets, and may affect the carrying value of goodwill.      The following table shows the rollforward of goodwill reflected in the financial statements resulting from the Company s acquisition activities for 2006, 2007, and
2008 ($ in millions).       
    The carrying value of goodwill by segment as of December 31 is summarized as follows ($ in millions):

78   

Table of Contents  

   Intangible assets are amortized over their legal or estimated useful life. The following summarizes the gross carrying
value and accumulated amortization for each major category of intangible asset ($ in thousands):       
    Total intangible amortization expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $145 million, $95 million and $64 million,
respectively. Based on the intangible assets as of December 31, 2008, amortization expense is estimated to be $146 million during 2009, $139 million during 2010, $132 million during 2011, $125 million during 2012 and $119 million during 2013.

(7)   
   ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LIABILITIES:         Accrued expenses and other
liabilities as of December 31 include the following ($ in thousands):       
    Approximately $255 million of accrued expenses and other liabilities were guaranteed by standby letters of credit
and performance bonds as of December 31, 2008. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of the Company s income tax obligations.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

(8)   
   FINANCING:         The components of the Company s debt as of
December 31 were as follows ($ in thousands):       
    The Company satisfies its short-term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro
commercial paper. Under the Company s U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $4.0 billion. Since the Credit Facility (described below) provides credit support for the program, the $1.45 billion of availability under the Credit Facility has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $1.45 billion the maximum
amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity of not more than 90 days from the date of issuance. Borrowings under the program are available for general
corporate purposes, including financing acquisitions. The Company classifies the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long-term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as
supported by the availability of the Credit Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date.      Credit support for
part of the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.45 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility (the  Credit Facility ) which expires on April 25, 2012. The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital
and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Company s option, (1) a LIBOR-based formula that is dependent in part on the Company s credit rating, or (2) a formula based on Bank of America s prime rate
or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of
consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus shareholders  equity) as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing
commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the commercial paper program. The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the
facility so that it could borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures.      During 2008, the Company utilized its
commercial paper program to finance the repayment of the 6.1% notes due 2008. During 2007, the Company utilized its commercial paper program (as well as operating cash flow and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering and December
2007 offering of the 2018 Notes), to fund the acquisitions of ChemTreat and Tektronix. As of December 31, 2008, borrowings outstanding under the Company s U.S. dollar commercial paper program had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%
and an average maturity of approximately 13 days. As of December 31, 2008, there was no outstanding Euro-denominated commercial paper.      In connection
with the financing of the Tektronix acquisition in November 2007, the Company entered into a $1.9 billion unsecured revolving bridge loan facility (the  Bridge Facility ), which provided additional credit support for the commercial paper
program and was also available for working capital and other corporate purposes. In December 2007, Danaher reduced the amount of the Bridge Facility to $1.0 billion to minimize maintenance costs, and in May 2008 Danaher further reduced the facility
to $0.5 billion. The Bridge Facility expired on November 11, 2008. There were no borrowings under either the Credit Facility or the Bridge Facility during 2008.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

   In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of
5.625% senior notes due 2018  (2018 Senior Notes ). The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the
acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining
scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 25 basis points. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of the 2018 Senior Notes approximated their carrying value.      On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net
proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were  496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used
to pay down a portion of the Company s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company may redeem the notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws or interpretations
under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of the Eurobond Notes was approximately $596 million.      In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to
pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of
principal amount at maturity into 14.5352 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of
December 31, 2008, an aggregate of approximately 68,000 shares of Danaher common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. As of December 31, 2008, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of
the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and/or
Company common stock, at the Company s option, on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted
value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash.      Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of
LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued
original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds  average market price during the specified measurement period or the
amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1.4 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended
December 31, 2008. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of the LYONs was approximately $620 million.      The Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except in connection with the
change of control triggers described as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes and the 2018 Senior Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change
of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of 2018 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes.
The Company s outstanding indentures and comparable instruments also contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered
restrictive to the Company s operations and as of December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

   The minimum principal payments during the next five years are as follows: 2009 - $66 million; 2010 - $8 million; 2011 -
$4 million; 2012 - $628 million, 2013 - $758 million and $1,155 million thereafter.      The Company made interest payments of approximately $72
million, $95 million and, $48 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       

(9)   
   PENSION BENEFIT PLANS:         The Company has noncontributory defined
benefit pension plans which cover certain of its U.S. employees. Benefit accruals under most of these plans have ceased. The Company also has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans which cover certain of the its non-U.S. employees, and under
certain of these plans, benefit accruals continue. The following sets forth the funded status of the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of the most recent actuarial valuations using a measurement date of December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007.
The Company acquired Tektronix in November 2007, including its pension plan. The September 30, 2007 funded status in the table below includes the impacts of the Tektronix pension plans acquired as measured on the date of acquisition:

82   

Table of Contents  

    Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at date of measurement: 

Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension cost at date of
measurement:        
    Included in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2008 are the following amounts that have
not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost: unrecognized prior service credits of $3.0 million ($2.0 million, net of tax) and unrecognized actuarial losses of $527.0 million ($343.1 million, net of tax). The unrecognized losses and prior
service costs, net, is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined projected benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets less accrued pension costs as of December 31, 2008. The prior service credits and
actuarial loss included in accumulated comprehensive income and expected to be recognized in net periodic pension costs during the year ending December 31, 2009 is $0.3 million ($0.2 million, net of tax) and $39.5 million ($25.7 million, net of
tax), respectively. No plan assets are expected to be returned to the Company during the year ending December 31, 2009.       Selection of Expected Rate
of Return on Assets       For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company used an expected long-term rate of return assumption of
8.0% for the Company s U.S. defined benefit pension plan. The Company intends on using an expected long-term rate of return assumption of 8.0% for 2009 for its U.S. plan. The expected long-term rate of return assumption for the non-U.S. plans
was determined on a plan-by-plan basis based on the composition of assets and ranged from 1.50% to 8.25% in 2008 with a weighted average rate of return assumption of 5.95%.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

Investment Policy       In connection with the acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007, the Company acquired approximately $589 million of assets associated with Tektronix  existing U.S. pension plans and merged those assets with the assets included in the
Company s U.S. pension plan. Included in the Tektronix assets merged were investments in real estate, absolute return funds and private equity partnerships with similar characteristics to equity investments. The fair value of these investments
at December 31, 2008 of approximately $125 million has been estimated by management based upon information supplied to the Company by the fund managers or the general partners, in the absence of readily determinable market values that are
available on publicly traded securities. The merged Tektronix assets were not included in the in the 2007 investment allocation in the above table as the acquisition and associated merger of plan assets occurred subsequent to the 2007 measurement
date of September 30, 2007.      The U.S. plan s goal is to maintain between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios, which are invested in
funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. Asset holdings are periodically rebalanced when equity holdings are outside this range. The balance of the
asset portfolio is invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Non-U.S. plan assets are invested in various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The value of the plan assets directly
affects the funded status of the Company s U.S. pension plan recorded in the financial statements.       Expected Contributions       The Company was not statutorily required to make contributions to the U.S. plan for 2008 or 2007. The Company contributed approximately $39 million to the non-U.S. plans
during 2008. During 2009, the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. pension plan are not expected to be significant. Funding requirements for the U.S. pension may become more significant commencing in the year ended
December 31, 2010; however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, underlying asset returns and the impact of recent legislative activity associated with pension funding obligations. The Company expects
to contribute approximately $30 million in employer contributions and unfunded benefit payments to the non-U.S. plans in 2009.      The following table sets
forth benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to be paid by the plans in the periods indicated.       
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

    Other Matters       Substantially all employees not covered by defined benefit plans are covered by defined contribution plans, which generally provide for Company funding based on a percentage of compensation.      Expense for all defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans amounted to $97 million, $105 million and, $88 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.       

(10)   
   OTHER POST RETIREMENT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:         In addition to
providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for some of its retired employees in the United States. Certain employees may become eligible for these benefits as they reach normal retirement age
while working for the Company. The following sets forth the funded status of the domestic plans as of the most recent actuarial valuations using a measurement date of December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007:       
    At December 31, 2008, $109.5 million of the total underfunded status of the plan was recognized as long-term
accrued post retirement liability since it is not expected to be funded within one year.       Weighted average assumptions used to determine
benefit obligations at date of measurement:        
    The medical trend rate used to determine the post retirement benefit obligation was 8.8% for 2008. The rate
decreases gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.0% in 2029, and remains at that level thereafter. The trend is a significant factor in determining the amounts reported.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   The following table sets forth benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to be
paid in the periods indicated.       
     Effect of a one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates ($ in
millions):        

1% Point Increase   
      
   1% Point Decrease   

Effect on the total of service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  0.7  
      
  $  
  (0.6  
  )   
 
    Effect on post retirement medical benefit obligation   

7.1  

(6.3  
  )   
     
    Included in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2008 are the following amounts that have
not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost: unrecognized prior service credits of $35.7 million ($23.2 million, net of tax) and unrecognized actuarial losses of $31.4 million ($20.4 million, net of tax). The unrecognized losses and prior
service costs, net, is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined projected benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets less accrued pension costs as of December 31, 2008. The prior service credits and
actuarial loss included in accumulated comprehensive income and expected to be recognized in net periodic pension costs during the year ending December 31, 2009 is $7.9 million ($5.1 million, net of tax) and $3.2 million ($2.1 million, net of
tax), respectively.       

(11)   
   LEASES AND COMMITMENTS:         The Company s operating leases extend
for varying periods of time up to 10 years and, in some cases, contain renewal options. Future minimum rental payments for all operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year are $110 million in 2009,
$72 million in 2010, $51 million in 2011, $34 million in 2012, $26 million in 2013 and $54 million thereafter. Total rent expense charged to income for all operating leases was $110 million, $103 million and, $84 million, for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.      The Company generally accrues estimated warranty costs at the time of sale. In general, manufactured
products are warranted against defects in material and workmanship when properly used for their intended purpose, installed correctly, and appropriately maintained. Warranty period terms depend on the nature of the product and range from 90 days up
to the life of the product. The amount of the accrued warranty liability is determined based on historical information such as past experience, product failure rates or number of units repaired, estimated cost of material and labor, and in certain
instances estimated property damage. The liability, shown in the following table, is reviewed on a quarterly basis and may be adjusted as additional information regarding expected warranty costs becomes known.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

   In certain cases the Company will sell extended warranty or maintenance agreements. The proceeds from these agreements is
deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the agreement.      The following is a rollforward of the Company s warranty accrual for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 ($ in thousands):       
    The Company selectively uses derivative financial instruments to manage currency exchange risk and does not hold
derivatives for trading purposes. In the fourth quarter of 2008, two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company entered into foreign currency forward contracts related to anticipated sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency
of the subsidiaries entering the contracts. The forward contracts, having an aggregate notional amount of 3.4 billion Japanese Yen ($37.5 million) related to one subsidiary and an aggregate notional amount of 14.5 million Euro ($20.3 million)
related to the second subsidiary, will be settled at various dates during the year ending December 31, 2009 in accordance with their terms. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as
amended, the Company accounts for these forward contracts as cash flow hedges. These instruments qualify as  effective  or  perfect  hedges. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate fair value of the forward contracts was
approximately $2 million.       

(12)   
   LITIGATION AND CONTINGENCIES:         Accu-Sort, Inc., a subsidiary of the
Company, was a defendant in a suit filed by Federal Express Corporation on May 16, 2001. On March 9, 2006 Accu-Sort settled the case with Federal Express for an amount which the Company believes is not material to its financial
position, which amount was reflected in the Company s results of operations in 2005. The purchase agreement pursuant to which the Company acquired Accu-Sort in 2003 provides certain indemnification for the Company with respect to this
matter, and an arbitrator ordered the former owners of Accu-Sort to pay the Company a portion of the losses incurred by the Company in connection with this litigation. In April 2007, the Company received this payment from the former owners and
recorded a pre-tax gain of $12 million ($7.8 million after-tax, or $0.02 per diluted share) which is included in  Other (income) expense  in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007.
     The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages
arising out of the use of the Company s products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage.
The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these
lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, automobile, aviation, crime, fiduciary, product, general liability, and directors  and
officers  liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. In
addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses.         
   87   

Table of Contents  

   The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The
Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of
legal counsel and, if applicable, other professionals. Based upon the Company s experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows,
financial position, or results of operations.      The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover certain liability costs
in excess of predetermined retained amounts. For general liability risk (which includes product liability) and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses ( stop loss  insurance) and
must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self-insured retention. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for
incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of outside risk insurance professionals for product liability. In addition, outside risk insurance professionals assist in the
determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Company s specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. While the Company actively pursues
financial recoveries for claims paid from insurance providers associated with these risks, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a
similar nature and magnitude. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2008 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ
from this estimate.      In addition, the Company s operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they
operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. A number of the Company s
operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws. The Company must also comply with various health and safety regulations in both
the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had and, based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and the Company does not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.      In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company from time to time incurs costs related to alleged damages associated with past or current waste disposal
practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. For example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the owners of those sites and certain other classes
of persons, are subject to claims brought by state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority. The Company has received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and from state and non-U.S. environmental
agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where the Company and others previously disposed of hazardous wastes require clean-up and other possible remedial action, including sites where the Company has been identified as a potentially
responsible party under U.S. federal and state environmental laws and regulations. The Company has projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities, in both the United States and abroad, to investigate and remediate
environmental contamination resulting from past operations. The Company is also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.
     The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and environmental-related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly
owned by it and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that potential
remediation liability for properties currently or previously owned is probable and reasonably estimable, it accrues the total estimated costs, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. The Company also estimates its
exposure for probable environmental-related personal injury claims and accrues for this estimated liability. While the Company actively pursues insurance recoveries as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not
recognize any recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

   The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Company s involvement in
certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to
certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. All
provisions have been recorded without giving effect to any possible future third party recoveries. For the reasons described above, the Company cannot assure that its estimates of environmental liabilities will not change.      In view of the Company s financial position and provisions for environmental remediation matters and environmental-related personal injury claims and based on
current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, the Company believes that its liability related to past or current waste disposal practices and other hazardous materials handling practices will not have a material
adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flow.      The Company s Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to
the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the
Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. The Company s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a
significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.       
    The provision for income taxes from continuing
operations for the years ended December 31 consists of the following ($ in thousands):       
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

   Current deferred income tax assets are reflected in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Long-term deferred income
tax liabilities are included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying balance sheets. Deferred income taxes consist of the following ($ in thousands):       
    Deferred taxes associated with temporary differences resulting from timing of recognition for income tax purposes
of fees paid for services rendered between consolidated entities are reflected as deferred service income in the above table. These fees are fully eliminated in consolidation and have no effect on reported revenue, income or reported income tax
expense. Deferred taxes at December 31, 2008 associated with U.S. entities consisted of net deferred tax liabilities of approximately $479 million and deferred taxes associated with non-U.S. entities consisted of net deferred tax assets of
approximately $124 million.      The effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31 varies from the statutory federal income tax rate as
follows:       
    The effective tax rate for 2008 of 24.7% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $9.5 million, or
$0.03 per diluted share. The discrete benefit is primarily associated with the reduction of valuation allowances related to net operating losses in Germany and Switzerland. The valuation allowances were reduced as it has become more likely than not
that the net operating losses will be realized. Partially offsetting the benefit from the reduction of valuation allowances was the net effect of income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various jurisdictions.
     The Company made income tax payments of $390 million, $335 million, and $204 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The Company recognized a tax
benefit of $5 million, $66 million, and $36 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to the exercise of employee stock options, which vested prior to the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 123R and for which no expense was
recognized. This benefit has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

   Included in deferred income taxes as of December 31, 2008 are tax benefits for U.S. and non-U.S. net operating loss
carryforwards totaling $89 million (net of applicable valuation allowances of $136 million). Certain of the losses can be carried forward indefinitely and others can be carried forward to various dates through 2028. In addition, the Company had
general business and foreign tax credit carryforwards of $65 million at December 31, 2008 and also has recorded a deferred tax asset for foreign credits of $49 million related to the indirect impact of certain unrecognized tax benefits (see
below).      The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on January 1, 2007. As a
result of the implementation of Interpretation No. 48, the Company recognized a decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $63 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained
earnings. As of December 31, 2007, gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled $475 million ($408 million, net of offsetting indirect tax benefits and including $81 million associated with potential interest and penalties). As of December 31,
2008, gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled $447 million ($426 million, net of offsetting indirect tax benefits and including $89 million associated with potential interest and penalties). Upon adoption of SFAS No 141R effective January 1,
2009 (see Note 19) all unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 (including accrued interest and penalties) will impact the effective rate if ultimately recognized. Unrecognized tax benefits and associated accrued interest and penalties
are included in  Taxes, income and other  in accrued expenses as detailed in Note 7.      The Company recognizes potential accrued interest and
penalties associated with unrecognized tax positions within its global operations in income tax expense. The Company recognized approximately $19 million and $24 million in potential interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions
during 2008 and 2007, respectively. To the extent interest and penalties are not assessed with respect to uncertain tax positions, amounts accrued will be reduced and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding amounts accrued for potential interest and penalties, is as follows ($ in
thousands):       
    The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various taxing authorities. The Internal Revenue
Service ( IRS ) has initiated examinations of certain of the Company s Federal income tax returns for the years 2006 and 2007. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Germany, Canada, France, and various other states, provinces
and countries that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2001 through 2007. To date, there have been no adjustments associated with in-process or recently settled audits that would have a material impact on the Company s financial
position or results of operations.      The Company files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the United States Federal jurisdiction and
in many state and foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. Federal income tax examinations for years before 2004 and is no longer subject to state, local and foreign income tax examinations by tax
authorities for years before 2001.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

   Management estimates that it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced up to
$150 million within twelve months as a result of resolution of worldwide tax matters, tax audit settlements and/or statute expirations.      The Company
provides income taxes for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are not considered permanently reinvested overseas. As of December 31, 2008, the approximate amount of earnings from foreign subsidiaries that the Company considers
permanently reinvested and for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $6.3 billion. United States income taxes have not been provided on earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States and the
amount of such taxes that may be applicable is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings.       

(14)   
   EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS):         Basic EPS is calculated by dividing
earnings by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted EPS is calculated after adjusting the numerator and the denominator of the basic EPS calculation for the effect of all potential dilutive common
shares outstanding during the period. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 10.3 million options to purchase shares were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation as the impact of their inclusion would have
been anti-dilutive. Information related to the calculation of earnings from continuing operations per share of common stock is summarized as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):       
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

On May 15, 2007, the Company s
shareholders voted to approve an amendment to Danaher s Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock of Danaher to a total of one billion shares, $.01 par value. Danaher s Certificate of
Incorporation was amended to reflect this change on May 16, 2007.      On November 7, 2007, the Company completed the public offering of
6.9 million shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriter s discount, were $550 million. The proceeds were used, in part, to fund the 2007 acquisition of
Tektronix (refer to Note 2).      Pursuant to the stock repurchase program authorized by the Company s Board of Directors on April 21, 2005, during
2008, the Company repurchased 1.38 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $74 million. During 2007, the Company repurchased 1.64 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at
a cost of $117 million. The 2008 and 2007 repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 2 million shares remaining for stock
repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Company s available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper.      Stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) have been issued to directors, officers and other employees under the Company s Amended and Restated 1998 Stock
Option Plan and the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, and RSUs have been issued to the Company s CEO pursuant to an award approved by shareholders in 2003. In addition, in connection with the November 2007 Tektronix acquisition, the Company assumed
the Tektronix 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and the Tektronix 2002 Stock Incentive Plan and assumed certain outstanding stock options, restricted stock and RSUs that had been awarded to Tektronix employees under the plans. These plans operate in a
similar manner to the Company s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and 1998 Stock Option Plan. No further equity awards will be issued under the 1998 Stock Option Plan, the Tektronix 2005 Stock Incentive Plan or the Tektronix 2002 Stock Incentive Plan.
The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, restricted stock or any other stock based award.      Stock options granted under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, the 1998 Stock Option Plan, the Tektronix 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and the Tektronix 2002 Stock Incentive Plan generally vest pro-rata over a five-year period and terminate ten
years from the issuance date, though the specific terms of each grant are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (Compensation Committee). The Company s executive officers and certain other employees
have been awarded options with different vesting criteria. Option exercise prices for options granted by the Company under these plans equal the closing price on the NYSE of the Company s common stock on the date of grant. Option exercise
prices for the options outstanding under the Tektronix 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and the Tektronix 2002 Stock Incentive Plan were based on the closing price of Tektronix common stock on the date of grant. In connection with the Company s
assumption of these options, the number of shares underlying each option and exercise price of each option were adjusted to reflect the substitution of Danaher stock for the Tektronix stock underlying these awards.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

   RSUs issued under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 1998 Stock Option Plan provide for the issuance of a share of the
Company s common stock at no cost to the holder. They are generally subject to performance criteria determined by the Compensation Committee, as well as time-based vesting such that, in general, 50% of the RSUs granted vest (subject to
satisfaction of the performance criteria) on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date. Certain of the Company s executive officers and other employees have been awarded RSUs with different vesting criteria. Prior to vesting,
RSUs do not have dividend equivalent rights, do not have voting rights and the shares underlying the RSUs are not considered issued and outstanding.      Restricted shares issued under the Tektronix 2005 Stock Incentive Plan were granted subject to certain time-based vesting restrictions such that the restricted share awards are fully vested after a period of five years. Holders of
restricted shares have the right to vote such shares and receive dividends. The restricted shares are considered issued and outstanding at the date the award is granted.      The options, RSUs and restricted shares generally vest only if the employee is employed by the Company on the vesting date or in other limited circumstances and unvested options and RSUs are forfeited upon retirement
before age 65 unless the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines otherwise. To cover the exercise of options and vesting of RSUs, the Company generally issues new shares from its authorized but unissued share pool. At
December 31, 2008, approximately 7 million shares of the Company s common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.      The Company accounts for share-based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, RSUs and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date.      The estimated fair value of the options granted during 2008 and prior years was calculated using a Black-Scholes Merton option pricing model (Black-Scholes). The following summarizes the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:       
    The Black-Scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards. The risk-free rate of interest for
periods within the contractual life of the option is based on a zero-coupon U.S. government instrument over the expected term of the equity instrument. Expected volatility is based on implied volatility from traded options on the Company s
stock and historical volatility of the Company s stock. To estimate the option exercise timing to be used in the valuation model, in addition to considering the vesting period and contractual term of the option, the Company analyzes and
considers actual historical exercise data for previously granted options. At the time of grant, the Company estimates the number of options that it expects will be forfeited based on the Company s historical experience. Separate groups of
employees that have similar behavior with regard to holding options for longer periods and different forfeiture rates are considered separately for valuation and attribution purposes.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the components of the Company s stock-based compensation program recorded as expense
($ in thousands):       
    Stock based compensation has been recognized as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements as payroll costs of the employees receiving the rewards are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2008, $56 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to RSUs and restricted shares is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2 years. Unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2008 is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 3 years.      Option activity under the Company s stock option plans as of December 31,
2008 and changes during the three years ended December 31, 2008 were as follows (in thousands; except exercise price and number of years):       
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

   Options outstanding at December 31, 2008 are summarized below:       
    The aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the
Company s closing stock price on the last trading day of 2008 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on
December 31, 2008. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of the Company s stock.      The aggregate
intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $64 million, $201 million and $110 million, respectively. Exercise of options during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 resulted
in cash receipts of $63 million, $113 million, and $60 million, respectively. The Company recognized a tax benefit of approximately $20 million, $66 million, and $36 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively related to the exercise of employee
stock options, which has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital.      The following table summarizes information on unvested restricted
stock units and restricted shares activity during the three years ended December 31, 2008:       
       
   96   

Table of Contents  

(16)   
   RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER RELATED CHARGES:         The Company initiated a
series of restructuring actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 to better position the Company s cost base for future periods. As a result, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other related charges totaling $82.0 million ($61.5
million, net of tax or $0.18 per diluted share) as indicated in the following table ($ in thousands):       
    The restructuring and other related charges are intended to improve future operational efficiency through targeted
workforce reductions and manufacturing facility consolidations and closures. The fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities resulted in net workforce reductions of approximately 1,800 associates and thirteen facility closures, the majority of
which have been completed as of December 31, 2008. Remaining workforce reductions and facility closure activities associated with the fourth quarter 2008 restructuring activities to be completed during 2009 are not significant.      Severance benefits related to workforce reductions were accrued in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for the Costs Associated with
Exit or Disposal Activities.  The majority of severance benefits will be paid within twelve months of accrual. The severance benefits for affected employees were provided under a special-benefit arrangement; applicable union agreements; or
local statutory requirements, as appropriate.      In conjunction with the closing of facilities, certain inventory was written off as unusable in future
operating locations. This inventory consisted principally of component parts and raw materials, which were either redundant to inventory at the facilities being merged or were not economically feasible to relocate since the inventory was purchased
to operate on equipment and tooling which was not being relocated. In addition, asset impairment charges have been recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, to reduce the carrying
amount of the long-lived asset that will be sold or disposed of to their estimated fair values. Charges for the asset impairment reduce the carrying amount of the long-lived assets to their estimated salvage value in connection with the decision to
dispose of such assets.      The nature of the restructuring and related activities were broadly consistent throughout the Company s reportable segments
and resulted in the pre-tax charges during the year ended December 31, 2008 as reflected in the table below ($ in thousands):       
    The restructuring and other related charges, consisting of $76 million cash charges and $6 million non-cash
charges, are reflected in the following captions in the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings ($ in thousands):       
       
   97   

Table of Contents  

The Company currently operates in four reportable
segments: Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies, Industrial Technologies and Tools   Components.      Operating profit represents total
revenues less operating expenses, excluding other expense, interest and income taxes. The identifiable assets by segment are those used in each segment s operations. Inter-segment amounts are not significant and are eliminated to arrive at
consolidated totals.      Detailed segment data for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is presented in the following table ($ in thousands):

98   

Table of Contents  

Operations in Geographical Areas        Year Ended December 31        

*  
  Amounts presented for the year ended December 31, 2007 have been restated to reflect the finalization of the purchase accounting and associated allocation of long-lived assets,
including goodwill and other intangible assets, to appropriate geographies related to the November 2007 acquisition of Tektronix.         
     Sales by Major Product Group:        Year Ended December 31        
       
   99   

Table of Contents  

(18)   
   QUARTERLY DATA-UNAUDITED ($ in thousands, except per share data):          

(19)   
   NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:         In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS No. 141R) and SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  ( SFAS No. 160 ). SFAS 141R establishes
principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R
also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 160 clarifies the classification of noncontrolling interests in the financial statements and the
accounting for and reporting of transactions between the reporting entity and holders of such noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008 and impact the accounting for acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 141R will likely have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations;
however, the magnitude of that impact is dependent on the frequency and relative size of the acquisitions completed by the Company. In general, more frequent acquisition activity and relatively larger acquisitions will have a more significant
impact. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations is not expected to be significant.      In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to
investors  requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the  
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or
permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value, and does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS No. 157 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007.
The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial position and results of operations.      In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of
fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure accounts and loans receivable, available-for-sale
and held-to-maturity securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. Other eligible items include firm commitments for financial instruments that otherwise would not be recognized at inception and non-cash
warranty obligations where a warrantor is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be
deferred, such as debt issuance costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and generally made on an instrument-by-instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. At the adoption date,
unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value are recognized in
earnings. SFAS No. 159 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial position
and results of operations.      In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48)  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  
an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , to clarify certain aspects of accounting for uncertain tax positions, including issues related to the recognition and measurement of those tax positions. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of
January 1, 2007, as required. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease of $63 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of
retained earnings.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         None       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         Our management, with the participation of
our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that, as of the end of such period,
our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.      Management s annual report on our internal control over financial reporting and the
independent registered public accounting firm s audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are included in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included in Item 8 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the headings  Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting , respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.      There have been no changes in our internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during our most recent completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., Danaher s President
and Chief Executive Officer, and a limited liability company of which Mr. Culp is the sole member (the  LLC ) and which holds certain of Mr. Culp s outstanding stock options, on or before February 28, 2009 will enter into pre-arranged
stock trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Danaher s policy with respect to the adoption of 10b5-1 plans. The plans are intended to allow Mr. Culp and the LLC to spread stock trades
relating to expiring options over an extended period of time on pre-arranged dates.      Under the plans, Mr. Culp and the LLC may sell in the open market at
prevailing prices on specified dates (subject to minimum price thresholds set forth in his plan) an aggregate of up to 2,000,000 shares to be acquired upon exercise of stock options that were granted to Mr. Culp in 2000 and are scheduled to expire
in July 2010. Any sales will be made during the period from April 2009 until the plans terminate in December 2009. The transactions under the plans will be disclosed publicly through Form 144 and Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.      Certain other officers and directors of Danaher may from time to time enter into trading plans established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1.
Except to the extent required by law, Danaher does not undertake to report Rule 10b5-1 plans that may be adopted by any officers or directors in the future or to report any modifications or terminations of any publicly announced trading plan.
        
   102   

Table of Contents  

      PART III        Code of Ethics       We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers (including
Danaher s principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) and employees, known as the Standards of Conduct. The Standards of Conduct are available in the  Investors   Corporate
Governance  section of our website at www.danaher.com. Stockholders may request a free copy of the Standards of Conduct from:      Danaher Corporation
     Attention: Investor Relations      2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     12th Floor      Washington, D.C. 20006      We intend to disclose any amendment to the Standards of Conduct that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation
S-K, and any waiver from a provision of the Standards of Conduct granted to any director, principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or any of our other executive officers, in the  Investors  
Corporate Governance  section of our website, at www.danaher.com, within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver.        
 ITEMS 10 THROUGH 14.        The information required under Items 10 through 14 is incorporated herein by reference to such information included in our
Proxy Statement for our 2009 annual meeting, and to the information under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I, hereof.         PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          

a)  
  The following documents are filed as part of this report.         

(1)  
  Financial Statements. The financial statements are set forth under  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this report on Form 10-K.

(2)  
  Schedules. An index of Exhibits and Schedules is on page 104 of this report. Schedules other than those listed below have been omitted from this Annual Report because they are not
required, are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.         

(3)  
  Exhibits. The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this report.           
   103   

Table of Contents  

    DANAHER CORPORATION        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES        

Page Number in Form 10-K    
 
    Schedules:   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Schedule    
      
  112   

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  113   
     EXHIBIT INDEX        

Exhibit       Number    
     
     Description     
 
    2.1  
     
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 14, 2007, among Danaher Corporation, Raven Acquisition Corp. and Tektronix *  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on October 15, 2007.   

3.1  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Danaher Corporation  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 12, 2007   

3.2  
     
  Amended and Restated By-laws of Danaher Corporation  
     
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 10, 2008.    

4  
     
  Danaher is a party to multiple long-term debt instruments under which, in each case, the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Danaher and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Danaher agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.  

10.1  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended**  

10.2  
     
  Danaher Corporation Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, a sub-plan under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan  

104   

Table of Contents  

10.3  
     
  Amended Form of Election to Defer under the Danaher Corporation Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan  

10.4  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2007.   

10.5  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan Stock Option Agreement for U.S. Employees**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2007.   

10.6  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan Stock Option Agreement for non-U.S. Employees, as amended**  

10.7  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan RSU Agreement for U.S. Employees, as amended**  

10.8  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan RSU Agreement for non-U.S. Employees, as amended**  

10.9  
     
  Amended and Restated Danaher Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan**  

10.10  
     
  Form of Grant Acceptance Agreement under Amended and Restated Danaher Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Danaher Corporation s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004   

10.11  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Statement under 1998 Stock Option Plan (U.S. Participants)**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.   

10.12  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Statement under 1998 Stock Option Plan (non-U.S. Participants)**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter September 29, 2006.   

10.13  
     
  Danaher Corporation   Subsidiaries Amended and Restated Executive Deferred Incentive Program**  

10.14  
     
  Danaher Corporation 2007 Executive Cash Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended **  

10.15  
     
  Danaher Corporation Senior Leader Severance Pay Plan**  

105   

Table of Contents  

10.16  
     
  Employment Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., dated as of July 18, 2000 and amended as of December 30, 2008**  

10.17  
     
  Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated as of March 26, 2003 by and between Danaher Corporation and H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Danaher Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 2003   

10.18  
     
  Danaher Corporation Share Award Agreement dated as of March 26, 2003 by and between Danaher Corporation and H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Annex C to Danaher Corporation s 2003 Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Commission on April 1, 2003   

10.19  
     
  Offer letter dated as of May 4, 2000 by and between Danaher Corporation and Philip W. Knisely**  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Danaher Corporation s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002   

10.20  
     
  Form of Noncompetition Agreement for Named Executive Officers (including schedule of parties)***  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Danaher Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2004   

10.21  
     
  Consulting Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and Steven E. Simms dated March 11, 2008  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 14, 2008   

10.22  
     
  Description of compensation arrangements for non-management directors**  

10.23  
     
  Credit Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2006, among the lenders referred to therein, Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book
Managers, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as
Documentation Agents ( 2006 Credit Agreement )  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (b)(1) to the Sybron Dental Specialties Schedule TO-T/A filed on April 26, 2006   

10.24  
     
  First Amendment to 2006 Credit Agreement  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007   
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

10.25  
     
  Credit Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2007, among Danaher Corporation, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent, Sole Lead Arranger and Book Manager, UBS Securities
LLC, as Senior Managing Agent, and the lenders referred to therein ( 2007 Credit Agreement ).  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 15, 2007   

10.26  
     
  First Amendment to 2007 Credit Agreement  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 2008   

10.27  
     
  Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement between Danaher Corporation, as Issuer, and Goldman, Sachs   Co., as Dealer, dated May 5, 2006  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006.   

10.28  
     
  Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, dated May 5, 2006  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006.   

10.29  
     
  Dealer Agreement between Danaher European Finance S.A., as Issuer, Danaher Corporation, as Guarantor, and Lehman Brothers International (Europe), as Dealer and Arranger, dated May 8, 2006

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006.   

10.30  
     
  Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement among Danaher European Finance S.A., Danaher Corporation and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch dated May 8, 2006  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006.   

10.31  
     
  Management Agreement dated February 15, 2007 by and between FJ900, Inc. and Joust Capital, LLC****  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2007.   

10.32  
     
  Interchange Agreement dated February 15, 2007 by and between Danaher Corporation and Joust Capital, LLC*****  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2007.   

10.33  
     
  Form of Proprietary Interest Agreement for Named Executive Officers (with severance) ***  

10.34  
     
  Form of Proprietary Interest Agreement for Named Executive Officers  

107   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Danaher undertakes to furnish supplemental copies of any of the omitted schedules and
exhibits upon request by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.     

**  
  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.     

***  
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. In addition, in accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K,
Danaher has entered into or will enter into an  
          
   108   

Table of Contents  

agreement with each Named Executive Officer named in the exhibit that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement attached,
except as to the name of the counterparty.      

****  
  In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, FJ900, Inc. has entered into a management agreement that is substantially identical in all material
respects to the form of agreement attached as Exhibit 10.31, except as to the name of the counterparty (Joust Capital II, LLC).     

*****  
  In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher Corporation has entered into an interchange agreement that is substantially identical in all
material respects to the form of agreement attached as Exhibit 10.32, except as to the name of the counterparty (Joust Capital II, LLC).           
   109   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.          

DANAHER CORPORATION    

Date: February 24, 2009  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ H. LAWRENCE CULP, JR.    

H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.   

President and Chief Executive Officer   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:       

Name, Title and Signature    

Date     

/s/ H. LAWRENCE CULP, JR.   

February 24, 2009   
 
  H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.  

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  

/s/ STEVEN M. RALES   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Steven M. Rales  

Chairman of the Board  

/s/ MITCHELL P. RALES   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Mitchell P. Rales  

Chairman of the Executive Committee  

/s/ WALTER G. LOHR, JR.   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Walter G. Lohr, Jr.  

Director  

/s/ DONALD J. EHRLICH   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Donald J. Ehrlich  

Director  

/s/ MORTIMER M. CAPLIN   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Mortimer M. Caplin  

Director  

/s/ JOHN T. SCHWIETERS   

February 24, 2009   
 
  John T. Schwieters  

Director  

110   

Table of Contents  

/s/ ALAN G. SPOON   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Alan G. Spoon  

Director  

/s/ LINDA P. HEFNER   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Linda P. Hefner  

Director  

/s/ DANIEL L. COMAS   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Daniel L. Comas  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

/s/ ROBERT S. LUTZ   

February 24, 2009   
 
  Robert S. Lutz  

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

111   

Table of Contents  

      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation:      We have
audited the consolidated financial statements of Danaher Corporation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and have issued our report thereon dated February 23, 2009
(included elsewhere in this Form 10-K). Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. This schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits.      In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.       
       
   112   

Table of Contents  

      DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        
        Notes: (a) Amounts related to businesses acquired, net of amounts related to businesses disposed.         
   113   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

Exhibit 10.1 

Exhibit 10.1        DANAHER CORPORATION        2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN       Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2009       

1.  
   Purpose of the Plan.  Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation, wishes to recruit and retain key Employees and outside Directors. To further these objectives, the Company
hereby sets forth the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Under the Plan, the Company may make grants of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Awards. The Company may also make direct grants of
Common Stock in the form of Restricted Stock Grants to Participants as a bonus or other incentive or grant such stock in lieu of Company obligations to pay cash under other plans or compensatory arrangements, including any deferred compensation
plans. The Plan constitutes an amendment to, and substitution for, the Danaher Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan.         

2.  
   Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:         Administrator  means the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board, unless the Board specifies another committee.       Applicable Period  with respect to any Performance Period for an Award means a period beginning on or before the first day of the Performance Period and ending no later than the earlier of (i) the 90th
day of the Performance Period or (ii) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has been completed.       Award  means an
award of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Other Stock-Based Awards (each as defined below).       Award Certificate  means a certificate setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award.       Board  means the
Board of Directors of the Company.       Code  means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time and the
regulations issued with respect thereof.       Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board in accordance with
Section 4(a) of the Plan.       Common Stock  means the common stock of the Company.       Company  means Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation.       Covered Employees  means any person who is a  covered employee  within the meaning of Code Section 162(m).       Date of Grant  will be the date as of which the Administrator grants an Award to a person.       Disability  means the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or that has lasted or can be expected to
last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months.   

Early Retirement  means an employee voluntarily ceases to be an Employee and both (i) the
employment termination occurs before the Employee reaches age sixty-five (65) and (ii) the Administrator determines that the cessation constitutes Retirement for purposes of this Plan. In deciding whether a termination of employment is an
Early Retirement, the Administrator need not consider the definition under any other Company benefit plan.       Eligible Director 
(or  Director ) means a non-employee director of the Company or one of its Eligible Subsidiaries.       Eligible Subsidiary 
means each of the Company s Subsidiaries, except as the Administrator otherwise specifies.       Employee  means any person
employed as a common law employee of the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary.       Exchange Act  means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended.       Exercise Price  means, in the case of an Option, the value of the consideration that an Optionee must
provide in exchange for one share of Common Stock. In the case of a SAR,  Exercise Price,  means an amount which is subtracted from the Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of such SAR.       Fair Market Value  means, as of any date, the fair market value of a share of Common Stock for purposes of the Plan which will be determined as
follows:       

(i)  
  If the Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange or other national securities exchange, the closing sale price on that date;         

(ii)  
  If the Common Stock is not traded on any such exchange, the closing sale price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System
( Nasdaq ) for such date; if no such closing sale price information is available, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as reported by Nasdaq for such date; or if there are no such closing bid and asked prices, the average of the
closing bid and asked prices as reported by any other commercial service for such date.         

(iii)  
  In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator and in compliance with Code
Section 409A.        For any date that is not a trading day, the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock for such date
shall be determined by using the closing sale price or the average of the closing bid and asked prices, as appropriate, for the immediately preceding trading day.       Gross Misconduct  means the Participant has:       

(i)  
  Committed fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement, willful misconduct or gross negligence with respect to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, or any other action in willful
disregard of the interests of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof;         

(ii)  
  Been convicted of, or pled guilty or no contest to, (i) a felony, (ii) any misdemeanor (other than a traffic violation) with respect to his/her employment, or
(iii) any other crime or activity that would impair his/her ability to perform his/her duties or impair the business reputation of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof;           
   2   

(iii)  
  Refused or willfully failed to adequately perform any duties assigned to him/her; or         

(iv)  
  Refused or willfully failed to comply with standards, policies or procedures of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, including without limitation the Company s Standard of
Conduct as amended from time to time.         Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means a stock option intended to
qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code Section 422.       Normal Retirement  means an employee
voluntarily ceases to be an Employee at or after reaching age sixty-five (65).       Option  means a stock option granted pursuant to
the Plan that is not an ISO, entitling the Optionee to purchase Shares.       Optionee  means an Employee or Director who has been
granted an Option under this Plan or, where appropriate, a person authorized to exercise an Option in place of the intended original Optionee.       Other Stock-Based Awards  are Awards (other than Options, SARs, RSUs and Restricted Stock Grants) that are denominated in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock.   
   Participant  means Optionees and Recipients, collectively. The term  Participant  also includes, where appropriate, a person
authorized to exercise an Option or hold or receive another Award in place of the intended original Optionee or Recipient.       Performance Objectives  means one or more objective, measurable performance factors as determined by the Committee (as described in Section 4(b) of the Plan) with respect to each Performance Period based upon one or more of
the factors set forth in Section 14 of the Plan.       Performance Period  means a period for which Performance Objectives are
set and during which performance is to be measured to determine whether a Participant is entitled to payment of an Award under the Plan. A Performance Period may coincide with one or more complete or partial calendar or fiscal years of the Company.
Unless otherwise designated by the Committee, the Performance Period will be based on the calendar year.       Plan  means this 2007
Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.       Recipient  means an Employee or Director who has been granted an Award other
than an Option under this Plan or, where appropriate, a person authorized to hold or receive such an Award in place of the intended original Recipient.       Restricted Stock Grant  means a direct grant of Common Stock, as awarded under Section 8 of the Plan.         
   3   

Restricted Stock Unit  or  RSU  means a bookkeeping entry representing an unfunded
right to receive (if conditions are met) one share of Common Stock, as awarded under Section 9 of the Plan.       Retirement 
means both Early Retirement and Normal Retirement, as defined herein.       Section 16 Persons  means those officers, directors or
other persons who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.       Securities Act  means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.       Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means any right granted under Section 7 of the Plan.       Subsidiary  means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain
beginning with the Company if, at the time an Award is granted to a Participant under the Plan, each of such entities (other than the last entity in the unbroken chain) owns stock or other equity possessing twenty percent (20%) or more of the
total combined voting power of all classes of stock or equity in one of the other entities in such chain.       1998 Plan  means the
Amended and Restated Danaher Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan, as amended.       

3.  
   Eligibility . All Employees and Eligible Directors are eligible for Awards under this Plan. Eligible Employees and Directors become Optionees or Recipients when the
Administrator grants them, respectively, an Option or one of the other Awards under this Plan.         

4.  
   Administration of the Plan .           

(a)  
   The Administrator . The Administrator of the Plan will be the Compensation Committee of the Board, unless the Board specifies another committee. The Board may also act under
the Plan as though it were the Committee. The Administrator is responsible for the general operation and administration of the Plan and for carrying out its provisions and has full discretion in interpreting and administering the provisions of the
Plan. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Administrator may exercise such powers and authority of the Board as the Administrator may find necessary or appropriate to carry out its functions. The Administrator may delegate its
functions (other than those described in subsection 4(d) below) to Employees, to the extent permitted under applicable Delaware corporate law.         

(b)  
   Code Section 162(m) and Rule 16b-3 Compliance . The Administrator may, but is not required to, grant Awards that are intended to qualify as performance based compensation
exempt from the deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m). However, grants of Awards to Covered Employees intended to qualify as performance based compensation under Code Section 162(m) shall be made and certified only by a
Committee (or a subcommittee of the Committee) consisting solely of two or more  outside directors  (as such term is defined under Code Section 162(m)). Awards to Section 16 Persons shall be made only by a Committee (or a
subcommittee of the Committee) consisting solely of two or more non-employee Directors in accordance with Rule 16b-3.           
   4   

(c)  
   Powers of the Administrator . The Administrator s powers will include, but not be limited to, the power to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted
pursuant to the Plan; amend, waive, or extend any provision or limitation of any Award (except as limited by the terms of the Plan); and, in order to fulfill the purposes of the Plan and without amending the Plan, to modify Awards to Participants
who are foreign nationals or employed outside of the United States in order to recognize differences in local law, tax policies or customs.         

(d)  
   Granting of Awards . Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Administrator will, in its sole discretion, determine:         

(i)  
  Optionees and the Recipients of other Awards;         

(ii)  
  the terms of such Awards;         

(iii)  
  the schedule for exercisability and nonforfeitability (including any requirements that the Participant or the Company satisfy performance criteria or Performance Objectives and the
acceleration of the exercisability or nonforfeitability of the Awards);         

(iv)  
  the time and conditions for expiration of the Awards, and         

(v)  
  the form of payment due upon exercise or grant of Awards.         

(e)  
   Substitutions.  The Administrator may also grant Awards in substitution for options or other equity interests held by individuals who become Employees of the Company or of an
Eligible Subsidiary as a result of the Company s acquiring or merging with the individual s employer. If necessary to conform the Awards to the interests for which they are substitutes, the Administrator may grant substitute Awards under
terms and conditions that vary from those the Plan otherwise requires. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, any Award to any Participant who is a U.S. taxpayer will be adjusted appropriately pursuant to Code Section 409A.

(f)  
   Effect of Administrator s Decision . The Administrator s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and need not consider whether actual or potential
Participants are similarly situated. All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Administrator shall be final and binding on all holders of any Award.         

5.  
   Stock Subject to the Plan .         

(a)  
   Share Limits; Shares Available . Except as adjusted below in the event of a Substantial Corporate Change (as defined in Section 16(a) of the Plan), the aggregate number
of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Awards may not exceed twelve million (12,000,000) shares, of which no more than four million (4,000,000) shares may be available for Awards granted in any form other than Options or
SARs. The Common Stock may come from treasury shares, authorized but unissued shares, or previously issued shares that the Company reacquires, including shares it purchases on the open market. If any Award expires, is canceled, or terminates for any
other reason, the shares of Common Stock available under that Award will again be available for the granting of new Awards. Any shares of Common Stock surrendered for the payment of the Exercise Price or withholding taxes under Options or SARs and
shares of Common Stock repurchased in the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise, may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan.         
  
   5   

(b)  
   Code Section 162(m) Limitations on Awards.  Subject to the provisions of Section 15 relating to capitalization adjustments, in the case of any Award intended to
comply with Code Section 162(m), no Employee or Director shall be eligible to be granted in any calendar year (i) one or more Options or Stock Appreciation Rights which in the aggregate cover more than ten million (10,000,000) shares
of Common Stock or (ii) one or more Restricted Stock Grants or awards of Restricted Stock Units which in the aggregate cover the cash value equivalent of more than ten million (10,000,000) shares of Common Stock, measured as of the
Date of Grant, less $0.01 par value per share of Common Stock. To the extent required by Code Section 162(m), in applying the foregoing limitation with respect to an Employee or Director, if any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted
Stock Grant or Restricted Stock Unit (in each case which is intended to comply with Code Section 162(m)) is canceled, the canceled Award shall continue to count against the maximum number of shares of Common Stock, or the value thereof, if
applicable, with respect to which an Award may be granted to an Employee or Director.         

(c)  
   Stockholder Rights.  Except for Restricted Stock Grants, the Participant will have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to an Award
except to the extent that the Company has issued certificates for, or otherwise confirmed ownership of, such shares upon the exercise or, as applicable, the grant or nonforfeitability, of an Award. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other
right for which the record date precedes the date of exercise or nonforfeitability, as applicable.         

(d)  
   Fractional Shares . The Company will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise or vesting of an Award. Any fractional share will be rounded up and
issued to the Participant in a whole share.         

6.  
   Terms and Conditions of Options .         

(a)  
   General . Options granted to Employees and Directors are not intended to qualify as Incentive Stock Options. The Administrator may not reduce the Exercise Price of any
outstanding Option, other than as provided under Section 15 below. Subject to the foregoing, the Administrator may set whatever conditions it considers appropriate for the Options, including time-based and/or performance-based vesting
conditions.         

(b)  
   Exercise Price . The Administrator will determine the Exercise Price under each Option and may set the Exercise Price without regard to the Exercise Price of any other Options
granted at the same or any other time. The Exercise Price per share for the Options may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Date of Grant, except where a lower Exercise Price is required to comply with
Code Section 409A in the event of an Option substitution, as contemplated by Section 4(e) above, or as provided under Section 15 below. The Company may use the consideration it receives from the Optionee for general corporate
purposes.         

(c)  
     Exercisability.  The Administrator will determine the times and conditions for exercise of each Option but may not extend the period for exercise of an Option
beyond the tenth anniversary of its Date of Grant. Options will become exercisable at such times and in such manner as the Administrator determines; provided, however, that the Administrator  
          
   6   

may, on such terms and conditions as it determines appropriate, accelerate the time at which the Optionee may exercise any portion of an Option. If the
Administrator does not specify otherwise at the Date of Grant, Options for Employees will become exercisable as to one-fifth of the covered shares of Common Stock on each of the first five anniversaries of the Date of Grant, and Options for Eligible
Directors will be exercisable in full as of the Date of Grant.         No portion of an Option that is unexercisable at an
Optionee s termination of employment (for any reason other than Retirement) will thereafter become exercisable, unless the Administrator determines otherwise, either initially or by amendment. In the event the Participant reaches age sixty-five
(65) while employed, irrespective of whether the Participant then retires, all time-based vesting conditions on outstanding Options will be deemed satisfied in full and the Options shall become fully vested once it has been determined that any
performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives have been satisfied.       

(d)  
   Method of Exercise . To exercise any exercisable portion of an Option, the Optionee must:         

(i)  
  Deliver a written notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company (or to whomever the Administrator designates), in a form complying with any rules the Administrator may issue
and specifying the number of shares of Common Stock underlying the portion of the Option the Optionee is exercising;         

(ii)  
  Pay the full Exercise Price by cashier s or certified check for the shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Option is being exercised, unless the Administrator
consents to another form of payment (which could include the use of Common Stock); and         

(iii)  
  Deliver to the Secretary of the Company (or to whomever the Administrator designates) such representations and documents as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may consider
necessary or advisable.        Payment in full of the Exercise Price need not accompany the written notice of exercise provided the
notice directs that the shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise be delivered, either in certificate form or in book entry form, to a licensed broker acceptable to the Company as the agent for the individual exercising the Option and at the
time the shares are delivered to the broker, either in certificate form or in book entry form, the broker will tender to the Company cash or cash equivalents acceptable to the Company and equal to the Exercise Price.      If the Administrator agrees to payment through the tender to the Company of shares of Common Stock, the individual exercising the Option must have held
the stock being tendered for at least six months at the time of surrender. Shares of Common Stock offered as payment will be valued, for purposes of determining the extent to which the Optionee has paid the Exercise Price, at their Fair Market Value
on the date of exercise. The Administrator may also, in its discretion, accept attestation of ownership of Common Stock and issue a net number of shares upon Option exercise.       

(e)  
   Term . No one may exercise an Option more than ten years after its Date of Grant.         
  
   7   

7.  
   Terms and Conditions of Stock Appreciation Rights .         

(a)  
   General . A SAR represents the right to receive a payment, in cash, shares of Common Stock or both (as determined by the Administrator), equal to the excess of the Fair Market
Value on the date the SAR is exercised over the SAR s Exercise Price, if any.         

(b)  
   Exercise Price . The Administrator will establish in its sole discretion the Exercise Price of a SAR and all other applicable terms and conditions, including time-based and/or
performance-based vesting conditions. The Exercise Price for the SAR may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Date of Grant.         

(c)  
   Exercisability . The Administrator will determine the times and conditions for exercise of each SAR but may not extend the period for exercise of a SAR beyond the tenth
anniversary of its Date of Grant. SARs will become exercisable at such times and in such manner as the Administrator determines; provided, however, that the Administrator may, on such terms and conditions as it determines appropriate, accelerate the
time at which the Participant may exercise any portion of a SAR. If the Administrator does not specify otherwise, SARs will become exercisable as to one-fifth of the covered shares of Common Stock on each of the first five anniversaries of the Date
of Grant.        No portion of a SAR that is unexercisable at a Participant s termination of employment (for any reason other
than Retirement) will thereafter become exercisable, unless the Administrator determines otherwise, either initially or by amendment. In the event the Participant reaches age sixty-five (65) while employed, irrespective of whether the
Participant then retires, all time-based vesting conditions on outstanding SARs will be deemed satisfied in full and the SARs shall become fully vested once it has been determined that any performance-based vesting conditions or Performance
Objectives have been satisfied.       

(d)  
   Term . No one may exercise a SAR more than ten years after its Date of Grant.         

8.  
   Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Grants .         

(a)  
   General . A Restricted Stock Grant is a direct grant of Common Stock, subject to restrictions and vesting conditions, including time-based vesting conditions and/or the
attainment of performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives, as determined by the Administrator and, with regard to Performance Objectives, determined and certified by the Committee (as described in Section 4(b) of the Plan).
The Company shall issue the shares to each Recipient of a Restricted Stock Grant either (i) in certificate form or (ii) in book entry form, registered in the name of the Recipient, with legends or notations, as applicable, referring to the
terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to the Award; provided that the Company may require that any stock certificates evidencing Restricted Stock Grants be held in the custody of the Company or its agent until the restrictions thereon shall
have lapsed, and that, as a condition of any Restricted Stock Grant, the Participant shall have delivered a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the shares of Common Stock covered by such Award.         

(b)  
   Purchase Price . The Administrator may satisfy any Delaware corporate law requirements regarding adequate consideration for Restricted Stock Grants by (i) issuing Common
Stock held as treasury stock or repurchased on the open market or (ii) charging the Recipients at least the par value for the shares of Common Stock covered by the Restricted Stock Grant.           
   8   

(c)  
   Lapse of Restrictions . The shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Grants will become nonforfeitable at such times and in such manner as the Administrator
determines; provided, however, that, except with respect to Awards the Committee designates as covered by Performance Objectives for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the Administrator may, on such terms and conditions as it determines
appropriate, accelerate the time at which restrictions or other conditions on such Restricted Stock Grants will lapse. If the Administrator does not specify otherwise, any time-based vesting restrictions on Restricted Stock Grants will lapse as to
one-half of the covered shares of Common Stock on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the Date of Grant. However, in the event the Participant reaches age sixty-five (65) while employed, irrespective of whether the Participant then
retires, all time-based vesting conditions on outstanding Restricted Stock Grants will be deemed satisfied in full and the Award shall become fully vested once it has been determined that any performance-based vesting conditions or Performance
Objectives have been satisfied. Unless otherwise specified by the Administrator or by the Committee described in Section 4(b) of the Plan, any performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives must be satisfied, if at all, prior to
the 10th anniversary of the Date of Grant.         

(d)  
   Rights as a Stockholder . A Recipient who is awarded a Restricted Stock Grant under the Plan shall have the same voting, dividend and other rights as the Company s other
stockholders. After the lapse of the restrictions without forfeiture in respect of the Restricted Stock Grant, the Company shall remove any legends or notations referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions on such shares of Common Stock and,
if certificated, deliver to the Participant the certificate or certificates evidencing the number of such shares of Common Stock.         

9.  
   Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units .         

(a)  
   General . RSUs shall be credited as a bookkeeping entry in the name of the Employee or Eligible Director in an account maintained by the Company. No shares of Common Stock are
actually issued to the Participant in respect of RSUs on the Date of Grant. Shares of Common Stock shall be issuable to the Participant only upon the lapse of such restrictions and satisfaction of such vesting conditions, including time-based
vesting conditions and/or the attainment of performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives, as determined by the Administrator, or in the case of Performance Objectives, determined and certified by the Committee (as described in
Section 4(b) of the Plan).         

(b)  
   Purchase Price . The Administrator may satisfy any Delaware corporate law requirements regarding adequate consideration for RSUs by (i) issuing Common Stock held as
treasury stock or repurchased on the open market or (ii) charging the Recipients at least the par value for the shares of Common Stock covered by the RSUs.         

(c)  
     Lapse of Restrictions . RSUs will vest and the underlying shares of Common Stock will become nonforfeitable at such times and in such manner as the
Administrator determines; provided, however, that, except with respect to Awards the Committee designates as covered by Performance Objectives for purposes of complying with Code Section 162(m), the Administrator may, on such terms and
conditions as it determines appropriate, accelerate the time at which restrictions or other conditions on such RSUs  
          
   9   

will lapse. If the Administrator does not specify otherwise, any time-based vesting restrictions on RSUs will lapse as to one-half of the covered shares of
Common Stock on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the Date of Grant. However, in the event the Participant reaches age sixty-five (65) while employed, irrespective of whether the Participant then retires, all time-based vesting
conditions on outstanding RSUs will be deemed satisfied in full and the Award shall become fully vested once it has been determined that any performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives have been satisfied. Unless otherwise
specified by the Administrator or by the Committee described in Section 4(b) of the Plan, any performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives must be satisfied, if at all, prior to the 10th anniversary of the Date of Grant.

(d)  
   Rights as a Stockholder . A Recipient who is awarded RSUs under the Plan shall possess no incidents of ownership with respect to the underlying shares of Common Stock.

10.  
   Terms and Conditions of Other Stock-Based Awards . The Administrator may grant Other Stock-Based Awards that are denominated in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or
otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock. The purchase, exercise, exchange or conversion of Other Stock-Based Awards and all other terms and conditions applicable to such Awards will be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.

11.  
   Termination of Employment . Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, the following rules shall govern the vesting, exercisability and term of outstanding Awards held by
a Participant in the event of termination of such Participant s employment, where termination of employment means the time when the active employer-employee or other active service-providing relationship between the Participant and the Company
or an Eligible Subsidiary ends for any reason, including Retirement. Unless the Administrator provides otherwise, termination of employment will include instances in which a common law employee is terminated and immediately rehired as an independent
contractor.         

(a)  
   General . Upon termination of employment for any reason other than for death or Retirement, all unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited
without consideration. The vested portion of any outstanding RSUs or Other Stock-Based Awards shall be settled upon termination and, except as set forth in subsections (b)   (g) below, the Participant shall have a period of three
(3) months, commencing with the date the Participant is no longer actively employed, to exercise the vested portion of any outstanding Options or SARs, subject to the term of the Option or SAR.         

(b)  
   Retirement . Upon termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Retirement (Early Retirement or Normal Retirement) and unless contrary to applicable law:

(i)  
   Acceleration of Time-Based Vesting upon Age Sixty-Five (65).  As set forth in Sections 6(c), 7(c), 8(c) and 9(c), in the event the Participant reaches age sixty-five
(65) while, employed, irrespective of whether the Participant then retires, any time-based vesting conditions on any outstanding Awards will be deemed satisfied in full.         

(ii)  
     Acceleration of Time-Based Vesting for RSUs and Restricted Stock Grants upon Early Retirement . Unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, in the event
of a Participant s Early Retirement, the time-based vesting of any portion of any  
          
   10   

RSU or Restricted Stock Grant scheduled to vest during the five-year period immediately following such Early Retirement shall be accelerated, and any portion
of such Award subject to time-based vesting conditions not scheduled to vest until after the fifth anniversary of such Early Retirement shall be forfeited. For the avoidance of doubt, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator the terms set
forth in this 11(b)(ii) shall not apply to any Award other than RSUs and Restricted Stock Grants.          

(iii)  
   Survival of Options and SARs . Subject to the term of the Award, any Options or SARs held by the Participant will remain outstanding, continue to vest and may be exercised
until the fifth anniversary of Retirement (or if earlier, the termination date of the Award).         

(iv)  
   Survival to Determine Satisfaction of Performance Conditions.  If any performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives remain unsatisfied as of the Retirement
date, the Award shall remain outstanding for up to five years after such date (or, if earlier, up to the termination date of the Award) to determine whether such conditions or objectives become satisfied and the Award shall become fully vested once
it has been determined that such conditions or objectives have been satisfied within the applicable period (at which point, the vested shares of Common Stock will be delivered to the Participant). The Administrator shall have discretion to
accelerate the vesting of all or a portion of such performance-based vesting conditions or Performance Objectives, except with respect to Awards the Committee designates as covered by Performance Objectives for purposes of complying with Code
Section 162(m).         

(c)  
   Death . Upon termination of employment by reason of the Participant s death:         

(i)  
  All unexpired Options and SARs will become fully exercisable and, subject to the term of the Option or SAR, may be exercised for a period of twelve months thereafter by the personal
representative of the Participant s estate or any other person to whom the Option or SAR is transferred under a will or under the applicable laws of descent and distribution.         

(ii)  
  A portion of the outstanding RSUs and Restricted Stock Grants shall become vested which will be determined as follows. With respect to each portion of an Award of RSUs or Restricted
Stock Grant that is scheduled to vest on a particular vesting date, upon the Participant s death, a pro rata amount of the RSUs or the Restricted Stock Grant will vest based on the number of complete twelve-month periods between the Date of
Grant and the date of death, (provided that any partial twelve-month period between the Date of Grant and the date of death shall also be considered a complete twelve-month period for purposes of this pro-ration methodology), divided by the total
number of twelve-month periods between the Date of Grant and the particular, scheduled vesting date. Any fractional right to a share of Common Stock that results from applying the pro rata methodology described herein shall be rounded up to a right
to a whole share. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, this acceleration of the vesting will also apply to any RSUs or Restricted Stock Grants the Committee has designated as covered
by Performance Objectives for purposes of complying with Code Section 162(m).           
   11   

(iii)  
  With respect to any Award other than an Option, SAR, RSU or Restricted Stock Grant, all unvested portions of the Award shall be immediately forfeited without consideration, unless
otherwise provided by the Administrator.         

(d)  
   Disability . Upon termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Disability, all unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited
without consideration. The vested portion of any Option or SAR will remain outstanding and, subject to the term of the Option or SAR, may be exercised by the Participant at any time until the first anniversary of the Participant s termination
of employment for Disability. The vested portion of any Award other than an Option or SAR shall be settled upon termination of employment.         

(e)  
   Gross Misconduct . Upon termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Gross Misconduct, as determined by the Administrator, all unexercised Options and SARs,
unvested portions of RSUs, unvested portions of Restricted Stock Grants and any Other Stock-Based Awards granted under the Plan shall terminate and be forfeited immediately without consideration.         

(f)  
   Post-Termination Covenants . Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan, to the extent any Award may remain outstanding under the terms of the Plan after termination of
the Participant s employment, the Award will nevertheless expire as of the date that the former Employee or Director violates any covenant not to compete or any other post-employment covenant (including without limitation any nonsolicitation,
nonpiracy of employees, nondisclosure, nondisparagement, works-made-for-hire or similar covenants) in effect between the Company and any Subsidiary thereof, on the one hand, and the former Employee or Director on the other hand, as determined by the
Administrator.         

(g)  
   Leave of Absence . The active employer-employee or other active service-providing relationship between the Participant and the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary shall not be
considered interrupted in the case of: (i) sick leave; (ii) military leave; or (iii) any other leave of absence, in each case to the extent approved by the Administrator. For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrator, in its sole
discretion, may determine that a Participant s leave of absence to complete a course of study will not constitute termination of employment for purposes of the Plan. Further, during any approved leave of absence, the Administrator shall have
discretion to provide that the vesting of any Awards held by the Participant shall be frozen as of the first day of the leave and shall not resume until and unless the Participant returns to active employment prior to the expiration of the term (if
any) of the Awards, subject to any requirements of applicable laws or contract. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, will determine all questions of whether particular terminations or leaves of absence are terminations of active employment or
service.         

12.  
   Award Certificates . The Administrator will communicate the material terms and conditions of an Award to the Participant in any form it deems appropriate, which may include
the use of an Award Certificate and/or an Award agreement that the Administrator may require the Participant to sign. To the extent the Award Certificate or Award agreement is inconsistent with the Plan, the Plan will govern. The Award Certificates
or Award agreements may contain special rules, particularly for Participants located outside the United States. To the extent the Administrator determines not to document the terms and conditions of an Award in an Award Certificate or Award
agreement, the terms and conditions of the Award shall be as set forth in the Plan and in the Administrator s records.           
   12   

13.  
   Award Holder . During the Participant s lifetime and except as provided under Section 21 below, only the Participant or his/her duly appointed guardian or personal
representative may exercise or hold an Award (other than nonforfeitable shares of Common Stock). After the Participant s death, the personal representative of his or her estate or any other person authorized under a will or under the laws of
descent and distribution may exercise any then exercisable portion of an Award or hold any then nonforfeitable portion of any Award. If someone other than the original Participant seeks to exercise or hold any portion of an Award, the Administrator
may request such proof as it may consider necessary or appropriate of the person s right to exercise or hold the Award.         

(a)  
   General . Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority to establish and administer performance-based grant and/or vesting conditions and Performance
Objectives with respect to such Awards as it considers appropriate, which Performance Objectives must be satisfied, as the Committee specifies, before the Participant receives or retains an Award or before the Award becomes nonforfeitable. Where
such Awards are granted to Covered Employees, the Committee (as described in Section 4(b) of the Plan) may designate the Awards as subject to the requirements of Code Section 162(m), in which case the provisions of the Awards are intended
to conform with all provisions of Code Section 162(m) to the extent necessary to allow the Company to claim a Federal income tax deduction for the Awards as  qualified performance based compensation.  However, the Committee retains
the discretion to grant Awards that do not so qualify and to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards including the Performance Objectives or other performance-based vesting conditions that shall apply to such Awards. Notwithstanding
satisfaction of applicable Performance Objectives, to the extent specified on the Date of Grant, the number of shares of Common Stock or other benefits received under an Award that are otherwise earned upon satisfaction of such Performance
Objectives may be reduced by the Committee (but not increased) on the basis of such further considerations that the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine. No Award subject to Code Section 162(m) shall be granted or vest, as
applicable, unless and until the date that the Committee has certified, in the manner prescribed by Code Section 162(m), the extent to which the Performance Objectives for the Performance Period have been attained and has made its decisions
regarding the extent, if any, of a reduction of such Award.         

(b)  
   Performance Objectives . Performance Objectives will be based on one or more of the following performance-based measures determined based on the Company and its Subsidiaries
on a group-wide basis or on the basis of Subsidiary, business platform, or operating unit results: (i) earnings per share (on a fully diluted or other basis), (ii) pretax or after tax net income, (iii) operating income,
(iv) gross revenue, (v) profit margin, (vi) stock price targets or stock price maintenance, (vi) working capital, (vii) free cash flow, (viii) cash flow, (ix) return on equity, (x) return on capital or return
on invested capital, (xi) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), (xii) strategic business criteria, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified revenue, market penetration, geographic
business expansion goals, cost targets, or objective goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures, or (xiv) any combination of these measures.           
   13   

The Committee shall determine whether such Performance Objectives are attained, and such determination
will be final and conclusive. Each Performance Objective may be expressed in absolute and/or relative terms, may be based on or use comparisons with internal targets, the past performance of the Company (including the performance of one or more
Subsidiaries, divisions, business platforms, and/or operating units) and/or the past or current performance of other companies. In the case of earnings-based measures, Performance Objectives may use comparisons relating to capital (including, but
not limited to, the cost of capital), shareholders  equity and/or shares outstanding, or to assets or net assets.      For Awards intended
to comply with Code Section 162(m), the measures used in setting Performance Objectives under the Plan for any given Performance Period will, to the extent applicable, be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
( GAAP ) and in a manner consistent with the methods used in the Company s audited financial statements, without regard to (1) extraordinary or nonrecurring items in accordance with GAAP, (2) the impact of any change in
accounting principles that occurs during the Performance Period (or that occurred during any period that the Performance Period is being compared to) and the cumulative effect thereof (provided that the Committee may either apply the changed
accounting principle to all periods referenced in the Award, or exclude the changed accounting principle from all periods referenced in the Award), (3) goodwill and other intangible impairment charges, (4) gains or charges associated with
discontinued operations or restructuring activities, (5) gains or charges related to the sale or impairment of assets, (6) all charges directly related to acquisitions, including all contingent liabilities identified as of the acquisition
date, (7) the impact of any change in tax law that occurs during the Performance Period (or that occurred during any period that the Performance Period is being compared to) which exceeds $10 million, and (8) other objective income,
expense, asset, and/or cash flow adjustments as may be consistent with the purposes of the Performance Objectives set for the given Performance Period and specified by the Committee within the Applicable Period, unless in each case the Committee
decides otherwise within the Applicable Period; provided, that with respect to the gains and charges referred to in sections (3) through (6), only gains or charges that individually or as part of a series of related items exceed $10 million are
excluded. In addition to the Performance Objectives established for any Award that is intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) and any time-based vesting provisions that may apply to such Award, any Award that is intended to comply with Code
Section 162(m) shall not vest under its terms unless the Company has first achieved four consecutive fiscal quarters of positive net income during the period between the grant date and the tenth anniversary of the grant date and the
Administrator has certified that such performance has been satisfied.       

15.  
     Adjustments upon Changes in Capital Stock . Subject to any required action by the Company (which it shall promptly take) or its stockholders, and subject to
the provisions of applicable corporate law, if, after the Date of Grant of an Award, the outstanding shares of Common Stock increase or decrease or change into or are exchanged for a different number or kind of security by reason of any
recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, combination of shares, exchange of shares, stock dividend, or other distribution payable in capital stock, or some other increase or decrease in such Common Stock occurs without
the Company s receiving consideration, the Administrator will make a proportionate and appropriate adjustment in the  
          
   14   

following in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan: (a) the number
of shares of Common Stock underlying each outstanding Award; (b) the number of shares of Common Stock which thereafter may be made the subject of Awards including the limit specified in Section 5(a) regarding the number of shares available
for Awards granted in any form other than Options or SARs; and (c) the number and type of shares of Common Stock specified as the annual per-Participant limitation under Section 5(b). Unless the Administrator determines another method
would be appropriate, any such adjustment to an Option or SAR will not change the total price with respect to shares of Common Stock underlying the unexercised portion of an Option or SAR but will include a corresponding proportionate adjustment in
the Option s or SAR s Exercise Price.         In the event of a declaration of an extraordinary dividend on the Common
Stock payable in a form other than Common Stock in an amount that has a material effect on the price of the Common Stock, the Administrator shall make such adjustments as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate to the items set forth in
subsections (a)   (c) in the preceding paragraph.      Any issue by the Company of any class of preferred stock, or securities
convertible into shares of common or preferred stock of any class, will not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof will be made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to any Award or the Exercise Price except as this
Section 15 specifically provides. The grant of an Award under the Plan will not affect in any way the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to
merge or to consolidate, or to dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       

16.  
   Substantial Corporate Change .         

(a)  
   Definition . A Substantial Corporate Change means:         

(i)  
  the dissolution or liquidation of the Company; or         

(ii)  
  the merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the Company with one or more corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships or other entities in which the Company is not
the surviving entity; or         

(iii)  
  the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company to another person or entity; or         

(iv)  
  any transaction (including a merger or reorganization in which the Company survives) approved by the Board that results in any person or entity (other than any affiliate of the
Company as defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act) owning 100% of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company.         

(b)  
   Treatment of Awards . Upon a Substantial Corporate Change, the Plan and any forfeitable portions of the Awards will terminate unless provision is made in writing in connection
with such transaction for the assumption or continuation of outstanding Awards, or the substitution for such Awards of any options or grants covering the stock or securities of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary of such
successor, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares of stock and prices, in which event the Awards will continue in the manner and under the terms so provided. Unless the Board determines otherwise, if an Award would
otherwise terminate pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Administrator will either:         

(i)  
  provide that Optionees or holders of SARs will have the right, at such time before the consummation of the transaction causing such termination as the Board reasonably designates,
to exercise any unexercised portions of an Option or SAR, whether or not they had previously become exercisable; or           
   15   

(ii)  
  for any Awards, cause the Company, or agree to allow the successor, to cancel each Award after payment to the Participant of an amount in cash, cash equivalents, or successor equity
interests substantially equal to the Fair Market Value under the transaction (minus, for Options and SARs, the Exercise Price for the shares covered by the Option or SAR (and for any Awards, where the Board or the Administrator determines it is
appropriate, any required tax withholdings)).         

17.  
   Employees Outside the United States . To comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries operates or has Employees, the Administrator,
in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:         

(a)  
  Determine which Subsidiaries shall be covered by the Plan;         

(b)  
  Determine which Employees outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan;         

(c)  
  Modify the terms and conditions of any Award granted to Employees outside the United States;         

(d)  
  Establish sub-plans and modify exercise procedures and other terms and procedures, to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable; and         

(e)  
  Take any action, before or after an Award is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any applicable government regulatory exemptions or
approvals.       Although in establishing such sub-plans, terms or procedures, the Company may endeavor to (i) qualify an Award
for favorable foreign tax treatment or (ii) avoid adverse tax treatment, the Company makes no representation to that effect and expressly disavows any covenant to maintain favorable or avoid unfavorable tax treatment. The Company
shall be unconstrained in its corporate activities without regard to the potential negative tax impact on holders of Awards under the Plan.       

18.  
   Legal compliance.  The granting of Awards and the issuance of shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements imposed by
federal, state, local and foreign securities laws and other laws, rules, and regulations, and by any applicable regulatory agencies or stock exchanges. The Company shall have no obligation to issue shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan or
deliver evidence of title for shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan prior to obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary, and completion of any registration or other qualification of the shares
of Common Stock under any applicable national or foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary. To that end, the Company may require the Participant to take any reasonable action to comply with such
requirements before issuing such shares of Common Stock. No provision in the Plan or action taken under it authorizes any action that is otherwise prohibited by federal, state, local or foreign laws, rules, or regulations, or by any applicable
regulatory agencies or stock exchanges.           
   16   

The Plan is intended to conform to the extent necessary with all provisions of the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act and all regulations and rules the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issues under those laws. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Administrator must administer the Plan, and Awards may be granted, vested and
exercised, only in a way that conforms to such laws, rules, and regulations.       

19.  
   Purchase for Investment and Other Restrictions.  Unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the shares of Common Stock a Participant receives under an
Award, the Administrator may require, at the time of such grant and/or exercise and/or lapse of restrictions, that the Participant agree in writing to acquire such shares for investment and not for public resale or distribution, unless and until the
shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act. Unless the shares of Common Stock are registered under the Securities Act, the Participant must acknowledge:         

(a)  
  that the shares of Common Stock received under the Award are not so registered;         

(b)  
  that the Participant may not sell or otherwise transfer the shares of Common Stock unless the shares have been registered under the Securities Act in connection with the sale or
transfer thereof, or counsel satisfactory to the Company has issued an opinion satisfactory to the Company that the sale or other transfer of such shares is exempt from registration under the Securities Act; and         

(c)  
  such sale or transfer complies with all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including all applicable federal, state, local and foreign securities laws, rules and
regulations.        Additionally, the Common Stock, when issued under an Award, will be subject to any other transfer restrictions,
rights of first refusal, and rights of repurchase set forth in or incorporated by reference into other applicable documents, including the Company s articles or certificate of incorporation, by-laws, or generally applicable stockholders 
agreements.      The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to comply with such
restrictions and applicable laws, including placing legends on certificates and issuing stop-transfer orders to transfer agents and registrars.       

20.  
     Tax Withholding.  The Participant must satisfy all applicable Federal, state, local and, if applicable, foreign income and employment tax and social insurance
withholding requirements before the Company will deliver stock certificates or otherwise recognize ownership or nonforfeitability under an Award. The Company may decide to satisfy the withholding obligations through additional withholding on salary
or wages. If the Company does not or cannot withhold from the Participant s compensation, the Participant must pay the Company, with a cashier s check or certified check, the full amounts required for withholding. Payment of withholding
obligations is due at the same time as is payment of the Exercise Price or lapse of restrictions, as applicable. If the Administrator so determines, the Participant may instead satisfy the withholding obligations (a) by directing the Company to
retain shares of Common Stock from the Option exercise or release of the Award, (b) by directing the Company to sell or arrange for the sale of shares of Common Stock that the Participant acquires at the Option exercise or release of the Award,
(c) by tendering previously owned shares of Common Stock, (d) by attesting to his  
          
   17   

ownership of shares of Common Stock (with the distribution of net shares), or (e) by having a broker tender to the Company cash equal to the withholding
taxes, subject in each case to a withholding of no more than the minimum applicable tax withholding rate.          

21.  
   Transfers, Assignments or Pledges.  Unless the Administrator otherwise approves in advance in writing or as set forth below, an Award may not be assigned, pledged, or
otherwise transferred in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise or through any legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), by the Participant to any person, except by will or by operation of applicable laws of descent and
distribution. If necessary to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, the Participant may not transfer or pledge shares of Common Stock acquired under an Award until at least six months have elapsed from (but excluding) the Date of
Grant, unless the Administrator approves otherwise in advance in writing. The Administrator may, in its discretion, expressly provide that a Participant may transfer his Award, without receiving consideration, to (a) members of the
Participant s immediate family, children, grandchildren, or spouse, (b) trusts for the benefit of such family members, or (c) partnerships whose only partners are such family members.         

22.  
   Amendment or Termination of Plan and Awards.  The Board may amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time, without the consent of the Participants or their beneficiaries;
provided, however, that no amendment will have a materially detrimental affect on any Participant or beneficiary with respect to any previously declared Award, unless the Participant s or beneficiary s consent is obtained. Except as
required by law or by Section 16 above in the event of a Substantial Corporate Change, the Administrator may not, without the Participant s or beneficiary s consent, modify the terms and conditions of an Award so as to adversely
affect the Participant. No amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan will, without the Participant s or beneficiary s consent, terminate or adversely affect any right or obligations under any outstanding Awards. Notwithstanding the
foregoing to the contrary, the Board reserves the right, to the extent it deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally modify the Plan and any Awards made thereunder to ensure all Awards, Award Certificates and Award
agreements provided to Participants who are U.S. taxpayers are made in such a manner that either qualifies for exemption from or complies with Code Section 409A including, but not limited to, the ability to reprice an Award (without the consent
of the Participant) to the Fair Market Value on the date the Award was granted; provided, however that the Company makes no representations that the Plan or any Awards will be exempt from or comply with Code Section 409A and makes no
undertaking to preclude Code Section 409A from applying to the Plan or any Award made thereunder.         

23.  
   Privileges of Stock Ownership.  No Participant and no beneficiary or other person claiming under or through such Participant will have any right, title, or interest in or to
any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved under the Plan or subject to any Award except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, that have been issued to such Participant.         

24.  
   Effect on Outstanding Options.  All options outstanding under the 1998 Plan will remain subject to the terms of the 1998 Plan; provided, however, that limitations imposed on
such options by Rule 16b-3 will continue to apply only to the extent Rule 16b-3 so requires.         

25.  
   Effect on Other Plans.  Whether receiving or exercising an Award causes the Participant to accrue or receive additional benefits under any pension or other plan is governed
solely by the terms of such other plan.           
   18   

26.  
   Limitations on Liability.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, no individual acting as a Director, Employee, or agent of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
shall be liable to any Participant, former Participant, spouse, beneficiary, or any other person for any claim, loss, liability, or expense incurred in connection with the Plan, nor shall such individual be personally liable because of any contract
or other instrument he executes in such other capacity. The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Director, Employee, or agent of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or
interpretation of the Plan has been or will be delegated, against any cost or expense (including attorneys  fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the Board s approval) arising out of any act or omission
to act concerning this Plan unless arising out of such person s own fraud or bad faith.         

27.  
   No Employment Contract.  Nothing contained in this Plan constitutes an employment contract between the Company and any Participant. The Plan does not give any Participant any
right to be retained in the Company s employ, nor does it enlarge or diminish the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment.         

28.  
   Governing Law.  The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) govern this Plan and its interpretation.         

29.  
   Duration of Plan.  The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. Unless the Board extends the Plan s term, the Administrator may not grant
Awards after May 15, 2017. The Plan will then terminate but will continue to govern unexercised and unexpired Awards. No additional Awards shall be granted under the Company s 1998 Plan following the approval of the Plan by the
Company s shareholders.         

30.  
   Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or any Award agreement, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits
otherwise payable to or provided to a participant under this Plan and any Award. For purposes of Code Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Code Section 409A) made under this Plan or an Award shall be considered a
 separate payment.  In addition, for purposes of Code Section 409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the definition of deferred compensation under Code Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (i) the
 short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and (ii) (with respect to amounts paid as separation pay no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing the
participant s  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A)) the  two years/two-times  separation pay exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated
by reference.        If the participant is a  specified employee  as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied
according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Plan or an Award constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Code
Section 409A), and to the extent required by Code Section 409A, no payments due under this Plan or an Award may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the participant s separation from
service, or (ii) the participant s date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following the
participant s separation from service. If this Plan or any Award fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the
participant by Code Section 409A, and the participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.         
   19   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 dex102.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.2

Exhibit 10.2 

Exhibit 10.2        Danaher Corporation        Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan       As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2009      Established under the      Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan   

TABLE OF CONTENTS       

Page    

Article 1.  
      
  Introduction  
      
  1   

Article 2.  
      
  Definitions  
      
  1   

Article 3.  
      
  Eligibility and Participation  
      
  4   

Article 4.  
      
  Deferral Opportunity  
      
  4   

Article 5.  
      
  Deferred Compensation Accounts  
      
  6   

Article 6.  
      
  Beneficiary Designation  
      
  7   

Article 7.  
      
  Rights of Participants  
      
  7   
       
   i   

Danaher Corporation        Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan        Article
1.        Introduction.       The primary purpose of the Danaher Corporation Non-Employee Directors  Deferred
Compensation Plan (the  Sub-Plan ) is to provide non-employee directors of Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation, with the opportunity to voluntarily defer all or a portion of their Compensation, subject to the terms of the Sub-Plan.
     The Sub-Plan was established under, and constitutes a part of, the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
effective as of January 1, 2009 (the  2007 Stock Incentive Plan ). For the avoidance of doubt, the Sub-Plan is subject to all applicable terms of the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, except for Section 11 of the 2007 Stock Incentive
Plan.       Article 2.        Definitions       Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings set forth in the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Whenever used herein, the
following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and, when the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized:       

(a)  
   Administrator  means Administrator as defined in Section 2 of the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and shall include any Employee to whom the Administrator has delegated
certain administrative functions related to the operation and maintenance of the Sub-Plan.         

(b)  
   Chairperson Fees  means fees paid by the Company to a Director, in cash, for serving as Chairperson of a Board Committee during the relevant Plan Year and which is
exclusive of any Retainer or Meetings Fees earned during such Plan Year.         

(c)  
   Change in Control  of the Company means, and shall be deemed to have occurred upon, any of the following events in accordance with Section 409A of the Code:

(i)  
  a  change in ownership of the Company  which means the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined below), acquires ownership of stock
of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company; provided, that, if any one person or more than one person acting as a
group, is considered to own more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company, the acquisition of additional stock by the same person or persons is not considered to cause a change in the ownership of the
Company (or to cause a  change in the effective control  (as defined in subsection (ii) below). An increase in the percentage of stock owned by any one person, or persons acting as a group, as a result of a transaction in which the
Company acquires its stock in exchange for property will be treated as an acquisition of stock for purposes of this section.     

(ii)  
  a  change in effective control of the Company,  which means the date that either: (A) any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined below),
acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the Company possessing 30% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company; or
(B) a majority of members of the Board are replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election.

(iii)  
  a  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company s assets,  which means the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as
defined below), acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the
total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions. For this purpose, gross fair market value means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being
disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not occur when there is a transfer to an entity that is controlled by the shareholders of the Company
immediately after the transfer, as provided in this paragraph (iii). A transfer of assets by the Company is not treated as a change in the ownership of such assets if the assets are transferred to:         

(A)  
  A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for or with respect to its stock;         

(B)  
  An entity, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company;         

(C)  
  A person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined below), that owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding
stock of the Company; or         

(D)  
  An entity, at least 50% of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in paragraph (C).           
   2   

Persons will not be considered to be acting as a group solely because they purchase assets of the same
corporation at the same time, or (with respect to (i) and (ii) above) as a result of the same public offering. However, persons will be considered to be acting as a group if they are owners of a corporation that enters into a merger,
consolidation, purchase or acquisition of assets, or similar business transaction with the corporation. If a person, including an entity shareholder, owns stock in both corporations that enter into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of
assets, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a group with other shareholders in a corporation only to the extent of the ownership in that corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with
respect to the ownership interest in the other corporation.       

(d)  
   Compensation  means the Retainer, Meeting Fees and, if applicable, Chair-person Fees payable to a Participant by the Company for services performed as a Director during a
Plan Year. In no event, however, shall amounts paid in the form of Company stock, stock options or other Company securities qualify as Compensation eligible for deferral under the Sub-Plan.         

(e)  
   Director  means each member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) is not an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, and
(ii) receives a Retainer, Meeting Fees and/or Chairperson Fees for service on the Board of Directors.         

(g)  
   Meeting Fees  means fees paid by the Company to a Director, in cash, for attendance at Board and various Board committee meetings during the relevant Plan Year, and which
is exclusive of any Retainer or Chairperson Fees earned during such Plan Year. For the purposes of the Sub-Plan,  Meeting Fees  shall not include any fees paid or payable in Company stock, stock options or other Company securities.

(h)  
   Participant  means any Director who is actively participating in the Sub-Plan.         

(i)  
   Phantom Shares  means a fictitious share of the Company which is a unit of measurement of the amount payable to Participants under the Plan and does not constitute stock
or any other equity interest in the Company (or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates) and does not have any rights of equity ownership in the Company. The sole significance of Phantom Shares is to establish a method of measuring the number of
shares of Common Stock distributable in respect of amounts deferred under the Plan.         

(j)   
     Plan Year  means the fiscal year of the Company beginning on January 1   st    and ending on December 31st.          

(k)  
   Retainer  means the annual cash retainer paid by the Company and earned by a Director during the relevant Plan Year with respect to the Director s service on the
Board, and which is exclusive of Meeting Fees or Chairperson Fees earned during such Plan Year. For purposes of the Sub-Plan,  Retainer  shall not include any retainer paid or payable in Company stock, stock options or other Company
securities.           
   3   

(l)  
   Termination of Service  means a  separation from service,  as defined in Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h) and applied by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
        Article 3.        Eligibility and Participation        3.1   Eligibility . Each person who is or becomes a Director on or after the Effective Date shall be eligible to participate in the Sub-Plan.
      3.2   Inactive Participant . In the event a Participant no longer meets the requirements for eligibility to participate in the
Sub-Plan, such Participant shall become an inactive Participant retaining all of the rights described under the Sub-Plan, except the right to make any further deferrals hereunder. In the event a Participant shall cease to serve as a member of the
Board of Directors but shall be designated as a Director Emeritus, such Participant shall become an inactive Participant, and, as a result of such change in status, the Director Emeritus shall not be eligible to make further deferrals under the
Sub-Plan but shall not be deemed to have a Termination of Service as a Director until such time as determined in Section 2(l) above.       3.3   Participation . The Administrator shall notify a Director as soon as practicable after he or she first becomes eligible to participate in the Sub-Plan. At such time, the Administrator shall provide such Director with an
Election to Defer Form which shall be submitted by the Director as provided in Section 4.2 hereof. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.4 below, a Director, once notified of eligibility to participate in the Sub-Plan, shall be
entitled to make deferrals with respect to each subsequent Plan Year by submitting an Election to Defer Form to the Administrator in the time and manner provided in Section 4.2.       3.4   Partial Plan Year Participation . In the event a Director first becomes eligible to participate in the Sub-Plan after the beginning of a
Plan Year, the Administrator may, in its discretion, allow such Director to complete an Election to Defer Form within thirty (30) days after the date the Director first becomes eligible to participate, in which case the deferral election shall
be valid and applicable for the Plan Year then in progress. An Election to Defer Form submitted pursuant to this Section 3.4 shall apply only to Compensation earned beginning in the first calendar quarter subsequent to the date on which a valid
Election to Defer Form is received by the Administrator.       Article 4.        Deferral Opportunity    
   4.1   Amount Which May Be Deferred . A Participant may elect to defer twenty-five percent (25%), fifty percent (50%), seventy-five percent
(75%) or one hundred percent (100%) of his or her aggregate Compensation in any Plan Year.       4.2   Deferral Election .
A Participant may make an election to defer Compensation under the Sub-Plan with respect to a Plan Year provided he or she makes such election prior to December 31 of the calendar year preceding such Plan Year or not later than thirty
(30) calendar days after the date the Director initially became eligible to participate in the Sub-Plan, as applicable. All deferral elections shall be made on an Election to Defer Form, as described  
       
   4   

herein, which shall specify: (i) the percentage of Compensation which the Participant elects to defer and (ii) the deferral period, as described in
Section 4.3 below. A deferral election must be submitted to the Administrator on a timely basis in order to be given effect. Once a Participant has submitted an Election to Defer Form, the Participant may only revoke or change the deferral
election if he or she notifies the Administrator in writing of the revocation or change prior to December 31 of the calendar year preceding the Plan Year for which the revocation or change is to be effective.       4.3   Length of Deferral . Except as otherwise provided herein, all deferrals hereunder shall be maintained in deferred status until the
expiration of the deferral period specified by the Participant in the Election to Defer Form. The Participant may elect to defer distribution until (i) Termination of Service for any reason, or (ii) either the first, second, third, fourth
or fifth anniversary of such Termination of Service. If a Participant fails to specify a deferral period, the deferral period shall expire upon the Participant s Termination of Service for any reason.       4.4 Change in Deferral Period . A Participant who elects to receive payment of deferred amounts on the first, second, third, fourth or fifth
anniversary of his or her Termination of Service cannot change such deferral period. A Participant who elects to receive payment of deferred amounts upon Termination of Service may make one subsequent election to change such deferral period. Such
subsequent election (i) may only extend the deferral period to the fifth anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Service; (ii) may not be effective until 12 months after the date the subsequent election is made; and
(iii) must be made at least 12 months prior to the date the payment would otherwise be made.       4.5   Payments of Deferred
Amounts . Each Participant shall receive distribution in respect of Phantom Shares credited to a Participant s deferred compensation account at the end of the applicable deferral period, as determined under Sections 4.3 and 4.4, as
applicable. Each distribution shall be made in a single payment in whole shares of Common Stock as soon as administratively feasible (but in no event more than 60 days) after the date specified for payment, and shall be equal to the number of
Phantom Shares credited to a Participant s deferred compensation account on the expiration date of the applicable deferral period. Fractional shares shall be taken together as of the expiration date of the applicable deferral period to pay out
a whole share. Any remaining fractional shares will be rounded up to a whole share and distributed as described above.      Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any undistributed deferred balances shall be distributed to the Participant (or his or her beneficiary) in the event that, at any time prior to full distribution of such deferred balances, the Participant dies or a Change in Control of
the Company occurs. In such event, each distribution shall be made in a single payment in whole shares of Common Stock as soon as administratively feasible (but in no event later than sixty (60) days) after the Participant s death or the
effective date of the Change in Control, as applicable, and shall be equal to the number of Phantom Shares credited to a Participant s deferred compensation account as of the effective date of the Change in Control.         
   5   

4.6   Unforeseeable Emergency . If a Participant suffers an unforeseen emergency, as defined
herein, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may make a single payment as soon as administratively feasible (but in no event more than 60 days after the date of such unforeseen emergency, and provided that the Participant may not elect the
taxable year of payment) to the Participant only that portion, if any, of his or her account that the Administrator determines is necessary to satisfy the emergency need, including any amounts necessary to pay any federal, state or local income
taxes reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution. A Participant requesting an emergency payment shall apply for the payment in writing in a form approved by the Administrator and shall provide such additional information as the
Administrator may require. For purposes of this paragraph,  unforeseen emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or of a dependent (as
described in Section 152 of the Code, without regard to Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable
circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. The circumstances constituting an unforeseeable emergency shall depend on the facts of each case, but, in any event, a distribution shall not be made to the extent
that such emergency is or may be relieved: (a) through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, (b) by liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause
severe financial hardship, or (c) by cessation of deferrals under the Sub-Plan.       Article 5.        Deferred
Compensation Accounts        5.1   Participants  Accounts . The Company shall establish and maintain an individual bookkeeping
account for deferrals made by each Participant under Article 4 herein. Each account shall be credited as of the quarterly date the amount deferred otherwise would have been payable to the Participant. The term  account  and other measures
representing the value of a Participant s deferrals under the Sub-Plan are bookkeeping entries only and shall not constitute property of any kind or any interest in the Company or specific assets thereof.       5.2   Manner of Investment . All amounts deferred under the Sub-Plan shall be credited as Phantom Shares. The number of whole and partial
Phantom Shares credited to a Participant s deferred compensation account will be based upon the dollar amount of the deferrals made by each Participant for the applicable quarterly period, divided by the Fair Market Value of the Company s
Common Stock on the date the amount deferred otherwise would have been paid to the Participant. The value of a Phantom Share credited to a Participant s deferred compensation account shall thereafter fluctuate pari passu with the Fair Market
Value of a share of the Company s Common Stock. In the event a cash dividend is declared on the Company s Common Stock, a Participant s deferred compensation account shall be credited with additional Phantom Shares equal to the
dividend on the number of Phantom Shares credited to his or her account divided by the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the day the dividend is paid. For the avoidance of doubt, if the outstanding shares of Common Stock increase or decrease
or change into or are exchanged for a different number or kind of security by reason of any recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, combination of shares, exchange of shares, stock dividend, or other distribution
payable in capital stock, or some other increase or decrease in such Common Stock occurs without the Company s receiving consideration, the Administrator will make a proportionate and appropriate adjustment to the number of Phantom Shares in
order to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.         
   6   

5.3   Charges Against Accounts . There shall be charged against each Participant s
deferred compensation account any payments made to the Participant or to his or her beneficiary.       Article
6.        Beneficiary Designation       Each Participant shall designate a beneficiary or
beneficiaries who, upon the Participant s death, will receive the amounts that otherwise would have been paid to the Participant under the Sub-Plan. All designations shall be signed by the Participant, and shall be in such form as prescribed by
the Board. Each designation shall be effective as of the date delivered to a Company employee so designated by the Board.      Participants may
change their designations of beneficiary on such form as prescribed by the Board. The payment of amounts deferred under the Sub-Plan shall be in accordance with the last unrevoked written designation of beneficiary that has been signed by the
Participant and delivered by the Participant to the designated employee prior to the Participant s death.      In the event that all the
beneficiaries named by a Participant pursuant to this Article 6 predecease the Participant, the deferred amounts that would have been paid to the Participant or the Participant s beneficiaries under the Sub-Plan shall be paid to the
Participant s estate.      In the event a Participant does not designate a beneficiary, or for any reason such designation is ineffective,
in whole or in part, the amounts that otherwise would have been paid to the Participant or the Participant s beneficiaries under the Sub-Plan shall be paid to the Participant s estate.       Article 7.        Rights of Participants        7.1   Contractual Obligation . The Sub-Plan shall create a contractual obligation on the part of the Company to make payments from the Participants  accounts when due.       7.2   Unfunded Plan . The Sub-Plan constitutes an unfunded, unsecured promise of the Company to make distributions in the future of the
amounts deferred under the Sub-Plan and is intended to constitute a nonqualified deferred compensation plan which is unfunded for tax purposes and for the purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
( ERISA ). Nothing contained in the Sub-Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Sub-Plan shall create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind, a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Director or any
other person. No special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment of deferred amounts hereunder. No Director or any other person shall have any preferred claim on, or beneficial ownership interest
in, any assets of the Company prior to the time that deferred amounts are paid to the Director as provided herein. The rights of a Director to receive benefits from the Company shall be no greater than any general unsecured creditor of the Company.
      7.3   Service as a Director . Neither the establishment of the Sub-Plan, nor any action taken hereunder, shall in any way
obligate (i) the Company to nominate a Director for reelection or to continue to retain a Director; or (ii) a Director to agree to be nominated for reelection or to continue to serve on the Board.         
   7   

7.4   Section 409A Requirements . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Sub-Plan, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to a Participant under this Sub-Plan. If the Participant is a  specified employee  as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied
according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his or her Termination of Service, no payments due under this Sub-Plan may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s
Termination of Service, or (ii) the Participant s date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a single lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the
seventh month following the Participant s Termination of Service. If this Sub-Plan fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest
imposed on the Participant by Code Section 409A, and the Participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.         
   8   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 dex103.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.3

Exhibit 10.3 

Exhibit 10.3        DANAHER CORPORATION        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        Election to Defer Form       This
Agreement made as of                       ,            by and between
                                  , an individual residing at
                                   (the  Participant ), and Danaher
Corporation (the  Company ) pursuant to the Danaher Corporation Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Sub-Plan ).      WHEREAS, the Company has established the Sub-Plan under the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2007 Stock Incentive Plan ) on behalf of its eligible non-employee Directors, and the
Participant is eligible to make an election to defer all or a portion of his or her aggregate cash Compensation as a Director in any Plan Year pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Sub-Plan.      NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:      (i)  General . Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the same meaning as set forth in the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or the Sub-Plan. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Election to Defer Form and the
Sub-Plan, the Sub-Plan shall control.      (ii)  Deferral Amount.  The Company and the Participant agree that the percentage of the
Participant s cash Compensation (i.e., cash Retainer, cash Meeting Fees, and cash Chairperson Fees (if any)), designated below, which would otherwise be payable with respect to services performed as a Director during a Plan Year beginning after
the date hereof (or with respect to a newly-appointed Director, during the remainder of the Plan Year after this Election to Defer Form is submitted to the Administrator) and each Plan Year thereafter, shall instead be credited to the
Participant s account established under the Sub-Plan:       [Please check one of the following:]        

(iii)  Participant s
Account.  The amount so deferred shall be credited to the Participant s account as of the quarterly date the amount deferred otherwise would have been paid to the Participant. All amounts credited to the Participant s account shall be
credited as Phantom Shares. The number of whole and partial Phantom Shares credited to the Participant s account will be based upon the dollar amount deferred for the applicable quarterly period divided by the Fair Market Value of the
Company s Common Stock on the date the amount deferred otherwise would have been paid to the Participant. The value of a Phantom Share credited to a Participant s account shall thereafter fluctuate pari passu with the Fair Market Value of
a share of the Company s Common Stock. Participant acknowledges that (a) Phantom Shares do not constitute stock or any other equity interest in the Company and (b) the value of the shares of Company Common Stock that the Participant
receives in respect of Phantom Shares upon distribution may be more or less than the initial deferral amount that relates to such Phantom Shares.   

(iv)  Deferral Period.  Subject to Section 4.6 of the Sub-Plan, the Phantom Shares credited to
a Participant s account shall be converted into shares of Common Stock and distributed to the Participant upon the earliest of (1) the distribution event elected by the Participant below, (2) the date the Participant dies, or
(3) a Change in Control of the Company:       [Please check one of the following:]        

Termination of Service          

First anniversary of Termination of Service          

Second anniversary of Termination of Service          

Third anniversary of Termination of Service          

Fourth anniversary of Termination of Service          

Fifth anniversary of Termination of Service         (v)
 Change in Deferral Period . Notwithstanding the foregoing and with respect to Participants who have elected distribution upon Termination of Service only, as provided in Section 4.4 of the Sub-Plan, after making the election to receive a
distribution upon Termination of Service in (iv) above, the Participant may make one subsequent election to change such deferral period; provided, that such subsequent election (1) may only extend the deferral period to the fifth
anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Service; (2) may not be effective until 12 months after the date the subsequent election is made; and (3) must be made at least 12 months prior to the date the payment would otherwise be
made. To effect such subsequent election, the Participant should provide the Administrator with written notice of such subsequent election. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Participant makes a valid subsequent election, subject to Section 4.6
of the Sub-Plan the Participant s account balance shall be distributed to the Participant upon the earliest of (1) the fifth anniversary of the Participant s Termination of Service, (2) the date the Participant dies, or
(3) a Change in Control of the Company.      (vi)  Timing and Irrevocability of Election.  The provisions of this Election to Defer
Form will continue to apply unless and until the Participant revokes this Election to Defer Form or changes his or her deferral election by submitting a new Election to Defer Form. Once a Participant has submitted an Election to Defer Form, the
Participant may only revoke the Election to Defer Form, or change his or her deferral election, if he or she notifies the Administrator in writing of the revocation or change prior to December 31 of the calendar year preceding the Plan Year for
which the revocation or change is to be effective. If the Participant revokes the Election to Defer Form or changes his or her deferral election, the revocation or change shall be effective beginning with the Plan Year following the calendar year in
which the revocation or change is made. With regard only to a Participant s initial year of eligibility, this Election to Defer Form must be received no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the date the Participant initially becomes
eligible to participate in the Sub-Plan in order to be effective.      (vii)  Participant Acknowledgement.  The Participant acknowledges
receipt of the Sub-Plan, the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the prospectus relating thereto and agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions thereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.       

By:  

Participant  

Name:  

Title:  

DANAHER CORPORATION        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        Beneficiary Designation Form
       Note: A Participant in the Danaher Corporation Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Sub-Plan ) may designate a
beneficiary or beneficiaries who, upon the Participant s death, will receive the shares of Danaher common stock that otherwise would have been distributed to the Participant under the Sub-Plan. Please complete this form and submit it to the
Administrator if you would like to so designate any such beneficiary(ies). Please refer to Article 6 of the Sub-Plan for more information.       I hereby
designate the following beneficiary(ies) to receive any payment that would otherwise become due to me upon my death under the terms of the Sub-Plan, subject to my right to change the beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of the Sub-Plan.
( Print names, indicate relationships and give addresses )       

Name  
      
  Relationship  
      
  Address   

Name  
      
  Relationship  
      
  Address   

Name  
      
  Relationship  
      
  Address   

Name  
      
  Relationship  
      
  Address   
    If two or more beneficiaries are named, and no statement is made to the contrary, I understand that payment will
be made in equal shares to the named beneficiaries who survive me.       

Date  

Participant   

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.6>
 5
 dex106.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.6

Exhibit 10.6 

Exhibit 10.6        DANAHER CORPORATION        2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT        (Non-US
Employees)       Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the
 Plan ) shall have the same defined meanings in this Stock Option Agreement (the  Option Agreement ).       

I.   
    NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT           Name:  
      Address:       The
undersigned Optionee has been granted an Option to purchase Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, as follows:       

Date of Grant   
      
  ___________________________________________   

Exercise Price per Share   
      
  $__________________________________________   

Total Number of Shares Granted   
      
  ___________________________________________   

Total Exercise Price   
      
  $__________________________________________   

Type of Option   
      
  U.S. Nonstatutory Stock Option   

Expiration Date   
      
  Tenth anniversary of Date of Grant   

Vesting Schedule   

Time-Based Vesting Criteria   
      
  ___________________________________________   

and/or   

[Performance Objective]   
      
  ___________________________________________   

II.   
    AGREEMENT          1.  Grant of Option . The
Company hereby grants to Optionee named in the Notice of Stock Option Grant (the  Optionee ), an option (the  Option ) to purchase the number of shares (the  Shares ) set forth in the Notice of Stock Option Grant, at
the exercise price per Share set forth in the Notice of Stock Option Grant (the  Exercise Price ), and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between the
terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.      2.  Vesting .
     (a)  Vesting Schedule . Except as may otherwise be set forth in this Option Agreement or in the Plan, Options awarded
to an Optionee shall not vest until Optionee (i) satisfies the performance-based vesting criteria ( Performance Objective ), if any, applicable to such Options  and  (ii) continues to be actively employed with the Company or
an Eligible Subsidiary for the periods required to satisfy the time-based vesting criteria ( Time-Based Vesting Criteria ) applicable to such Options. The Performance Objective and Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to an Option are
collectively referred to as  Vesting Conditions,  and the earliest date upon which all Vesting Conditions are satisfied is referred to as the  Vesting Date.  The Vesting Conditions for an Option received by an Optionee shall be
established by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) (or by one or more members of Company management, if such power has been delegated in accordance with the Plan and applicable law) and reflected in the account maintained for
Optionee by an external third party administrator of the Option awards. Further, during any approved leave of absence, to the extent permitted by local law, the Committee shall have discretion to provide that the vesting of the Options shall be
frozen as of the first day of the leave and shall not resume until and unless Optionee returns to active employment prior to the Expiration Date of the Options.      (b)  Performance Objective . The Committee shall determine whether the Performance Objective applicable to an Option has been met,
and such determination shall be final and conclusive. Until the Committee has made such a determination, the Performance Objective may not be considered to have been satisfied. Notwithstanding any determination by the Committee that the Performance
Objective has been attained with respect to particular Options, such Options shall not be considered to have vested unless and until Optionee has satisfied the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to such Options.      (c)  Age 65 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to all Options held by an Optionee shall be
deemed 100% satisfied upon Optionee s attainment of age 65; provided that such Options shall remain subject to any applicable Performance Objective that remains unsatisfied as of such date.      3.  Exercise of Option .      (a)  Right to Exercise . This Option shall be exercisable during its term in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Stock Option Grant and with the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.
        
   2   

(b)  Method and Time of Exercise . This Option shall be exercisable by any method
made available from time to time by the external third party administrator of the Option awards. An exercise may be made with respect to whole Shares only, and not for a fraction of a Share.      Shares shall not be issued under the Plan unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares comply with (or are exempt from) all applicable
requirements of law, including (without limitation) the Securities Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws and regulations, and the regulations of any stock exchange or other securities market on which the
Company s securities may then be traded. The Committee may require Optionee to take any reasonable action in order to comply with any such rules or regulations. Assuming such compliance, for income tax purposes the Shares shall be considered
transferred to Optionee on the date the Option is exercised with respect to such Shares.      (c)  Acknowledgment of Potential
Securities Law Restrictions . Unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the Shares issued upon exercise of an Option, the Committee may require that Optionee agree in writing to acquire such Shares for investment and not for
public resale or distribution, unless and until the Shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act. The Committee may also require Optionee to acknowledge that he or she shall not sell or transfer such Shares except in
compliance with all applicable laws, and may apply such other restrictions as it deems appropriate. Optionee also acknowledges that the U.S. federal securities laws prohibit trading in the stock of the Company by persons who are in possession of
material, non-public information, and also acknowledges and understands the other restrictions set forth in the Company s Insider Trading Policy.      4.  Method of Payment . Payment of the aggregate Exercise Price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of Optionee:      (a) cash, delivered to the external third party administrator of the Option awards in any methodology permitted by such third party
administrator; or      (b) to the extent permitted by applicable law, payment under a cashless exercise program approved by the
Company or through a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (i) shall provide written instructions to a licensed broker acceptable to the Company and acting as agent for Optionee to effect the immediate sale of
some or all of the purchased Shares and to remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares and (ii) shall provide written
direction to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      5.
 Termination of Employment .      (a)  General . In the event Optionee s active employment with the Company or an
Eligible Subsidiary terminates for any reason (other than death or Retirement), all unvested Options shall be automatically forfeited by Optionee as of the date of termination. In the event Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible
Subsidiary terminates for any reason (other than death, Disability, Retirement or Gross Misconduct), Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months, commencing with the date Optionee is no longer actively employed, to exercise the vested
portion of any outstanding Options.         
   3   

(b)  Death . Upon Optionee s death, all unexpired options shall become fully
exercisable and may be exercised for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter by the personal representative of Optionee s estate or any other person to whom the Option is transferred under a will or under the applicable laws of descent
and distribution.      (c)  Disability . In the event Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary
terminates by reason of Optionee s Disability, all unvested Options shall be automatically forfeited by Optionee as of the date of termination and Optionee shall have until the first anniversary of Optionee s termination of employment for
Disability to exercise the vested portion of any outstanding Options.      (d)  Normal Retirement . In the event Optionee
voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary at or after reaching age 65, and as of the date of Optionee s Normal Retirement Optionee holds Options that remain subject to any Performance Objective, the
Options shall remain outstanding for up to the fifth anniversary of such date (or if earlier, up to the Expiration Date of the Option) to determine whether such conditions become satisfied (and if the Committee determines that the Performance
Objectives are satisfied within such period, the Options shall remain outstanding and may be exercised up until the fifth anniversary of the date of Optionee s Normal Retirement (or if earlier, up until the Expiration Date of the Options)). In
the event Optionee voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary at or after reaching age 65, and as of the date of Optionee s Normal Retirement, Optionee holds Options that are not subject to any
unsatisfied Performance Objective, the Options shall remain outstanding and may be exercised up until the fifth anniversary of such date (or if earlier, up until the Expiration Date of the Option).      (e)  Early Retirement . In the event Optionee voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary
prior to age 65  and  the Committee determines that the cessation of Optionee s employment constitutes Early Retirement, Optionee s unvested Options shall remain outstanding and shall continue to vest (as to both the Performance
Objective and Time-Based Vesting Criteria, as applicable) for a period of five (5) years following the date of Optionee s Retirement.      (f)  Gross Misconduct . If Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary is terminated for Gross Misconduct, Optionee s unexercised Options shall terminate immediately as of the time
of termination, without consideration.      (g)  Violation of Post-Employment Covenant . To the extent that any of
Optionee s Options remain outstanding under the terms of the Plan or this Option Agreement after termination of Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary, such Options shall nevertheless expire as of the date
Optionee violates any covenant not to compete or other post-employment covenant that exists between Optionee on the one hand and the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand.         
   4   

(h)  Substantial Corporate Change . Upon a Substantial Corporate Change,
Optionee s outstanding Options shall terminate unless provision is made for the assumption or substitution of such Options as provided in Section 16(b) of the Plan.      6.  Non-Transferability of Option; Term of Option .      (a) This Option may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by Optionee. The terms of the Plan and
this Option Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and permitted successors and assigns of Optionee.      (b) This Option may be exercised only prior to the Expiration Date set out in the Notice of Stock Option Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option Agreement.      7.  Amendment of Option or Plan . The Plan and this Option Agreement constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Optionee with respect to the subject matter hereof. Optionee expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Option Agreement in reliance
on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. The Company s Board may amend, modify or terminate the Plan or any Option in any respect at any time; provided, however, that modifications to this Option
Agreement or the Plan that adversely affect Optionee s rights hereunder can be made only in an express written contract signed by the Company and Optionee. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Option Agreement, the
Company reserves the right to revise this Option Agreement and Optionee s rights under outstanding Options as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of Optionee, (1) upon a Substantial Corporate
Change, (2) as required by law, or (3) to comply with Section 409A of the Code ( Section 409A ) or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A in connection to this award
of Options.      8.  Tax Obligations .      (a)  Withholding Taxes . Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing Optionee (the  Employer ) take with respect to any or all federal, state, local or foreign income tax, social
insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax related items ( Tax Related Items ), Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the Option is and remains Optionee s
responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting
or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate
Optionee s liability for Tax Related Items. Further, if Optionee has relocated to a different jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former
employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.         
   5   

Prior to the relevant taxable event, Optionee shall pay or make adequate arrangements
satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer (in its sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted under local law, to
satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by Optionee by one or a combination of the following: (i) require Optionee to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check;
(ii) withholding cash from Optionee s wages or other compensation payable to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) withholding from the proceeds of a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure as described in
Section 4(b) above; or (iv) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to Optionee, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount or such other amount as may be
necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event. Optionee shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that the Company or the Employer
may be required to withhold as a result of Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s purchase of Shares that are not satisfied by any of the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to
deliver the Shares to Optionee if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax Related Items as described in this Section.      (b)  Code Section 409A . Payments made pursuant to this Plan and the Option Agreement are intended to qualify for an exemption
from or comply with Section 409A. Notwithstanding any provision in the Option Agreement, the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan
and/or this Option Agreement to ensure that all Options granted to Optionees who are United States taxpayers are made in such a manner that either qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A; provided, however, that the Company
makes no representations that the Plan or the Options shall be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Plan or any Options granted thereunder.      9.  Rights as Shareholder . Until all requirements for exercise of the Option pursuant to the terms of this Option Agreement and the Plan have been
satisfied, Optionee shall not be deemed to be a shareholder or to have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any Shares.      10.
 No Employment Contract . Nothing in the Plan or this Option Agreement constitutes an employment contract between the Company and Optionee and this Option Agreement shall not confer upon Optionee any right to continuation of employment with the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries, nor shall this Option Agreement interfere in any way with the Company s or any of its Subsidiaries  right to terminate Optionee s employment or at any time, with or without cause (subject to any
employment agreement an Optionee may otherwise have with the Company or a Subsidiary thereof and/or applicable law).         
   6   

11.  Board Authority . The Board and/or the Committee shall have the power to interpret this Option
Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Option Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether any
Options have vested). All interpretations and determinations made by the Board and/or the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon Optionee, the Company and all other interested persons and such determinations of the Board and/or the
Committee do not have to be uniform nor do they have to consider whether Optionees are similarly situated. No member of the Board and/or the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with
respect to this Option Agreement.      12.  Headings . The captions used in this Option Agreement and the Plan are inserted for
convenience and shall not be deemed to be a part of the Option for construction and interpretation.      13.  Electronic Delivery .
     (a) If Optionee executes this Option Agreement electronically, for the avoidance of doubt Optionee acknowledges and agrees
that his or her execution of this Option Agreement electronically (through an on-line system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, or otherwise) shall have the same binding legal effect as would
execution of this Option Agreement in paper form. Optionee acknowledges that upon request of the Company he or she shall also provide an executed, paper form of this Option Agreement.      (b) If Optionee executes this Option Agreement in paper form, for the avoidance of doubt the parties acknowledge and agree that it is
their intent that any agreement previously or subsequently entered into between the parties that is executed electronically shall have the same binding legal effect as if such agreement were executed in paper form.      (c) If Optionee executes this Option Agreement multiple times (for example, if Optionee first executes this Option Agreement in electronic
form and subsequently executes the Option Agreement in paper form), Optionee acknowledges and agrees that (i) no matter how many versions of this Option Agreement are executed and in whatever medium, this Option Agreement only evidences a
single Option relating to the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Stock Option Grant and (ii) this Option Agreement shall be effective as of the earliest execution of this Option Agreement by the parties, whether in paper form or
electronically, and the subsequent execution of this Option Agreement in the same or a different medium shall in no way impair the binding legal effect of this Option Agreement as of the time of original execution.      (d) The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver by electronic means any documents related to the Option, to participation
in the Plan, or to future awards granted under the Plan, or otherwise required to be delivered to Optionee pursuant to the Plan or under applicable law, including but not limited to, the Plan, the Option Agreement, the Plan prospectus and any
reports of the Company generally provided to shareholders. Such means of electronic delivery may include, but do not necessarily include, the delivery of a link to the  
       
   7   

Company s intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of documents via electronic mail
( e-mail ) or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company. By executing this Option Agreement, Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery. At Optionee s written request to the
Secretary of the Company, the Company shall provide a paper copy of any document at no cost to Optionee.      14.    Data Privacy .
Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her Data (as defined below) by and among, as necessary and applicable, the Employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries
for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan and in the Company s Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Option Plan (the  1998 Plan   ).        Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not
limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, and job title, any Common Stock or directorships held in the Company, and
details of the Option or any other option or other entitlement to Shares, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in Optionee s favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan
( Data ). Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee s
country or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee s country. Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic
or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan and/or in the 1998 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with
whom Optionee may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option or any other option or other entitlement to Shares.          Optionee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative. Optionee understands
that Data shall be held as long as is reasonably necessary to implement, administer and manage his or her participation in the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan, and he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and
processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. Optionee understands, however, that refusing
or withdrawing such consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan. In addition, Optionee understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries have separately implemented procedures for the handling of Data which
the Company believes permits the Company to use the Data in the manner set forth above notwithstanding Optionee s withdrawal of such consent. For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee
understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.           
   8   

15.  Nature of Option . In accepting the Option, Optionee acknowledges and agrees that:   
  (a) Optionee has received a copy of the Plan and the prospectus relating thereto; he or she has read and is familiar with the terms and
provisions thereof and has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Option Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Option Agreement and the Plan and hereby accepts this Option subject to all of the
terms and provisions thereof;      (b) Optionee shall accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations
of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Plan or this Option Agreement;      (c) the award of the Option is
voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options, even if options have been granted repeatedly in the past;      (d) all decisions with respect to future option grants, if any, shall be at the sole discretion of the Company;      (e) Optionee s participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (f) the Option is an extraordinary item that (i) does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to
the Company or any Subsidiary, and (ii) is outside the scope of Optionee s employment or service contract, if any;      (g) the Option is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards,
pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or any Subsidiary;      (h) the Option and Optionee s participation in the Plan shall not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract with the
Company or any Subsidiary of the Company;      (i) the future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with
certainty;      (j) if the Shares do not increase in value, the Option will have no value;      (k) if Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the Shares obtained upon exercise may increase or decrease in value,
even below the Exercise Price;      (l) in consideration of the award of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or
damages shall arise from termination of the Option or diminution in value of the Option, or Shares purchased through the exercise of the Option, resulting from termination of Optionee s employment by the Company or any Subsidiary (for any
reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and in consideration of the grant of the Option, Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and any Subsidiary from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing,
any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing/electronically accepting the Option Agreement, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her right to pursue or seek remedy for any such
claim or entitlement;         
   9   

(m) in the event of termination of Optionee s employment (whether or not in breach
of local labor laws), Optionee s right to receive Options under the Plan and to vest in such Options, if any, shall terminate effective as of the date that Optionee is no longer actively employed and shall not be extended by any notice period
mandated under local law ( e.g.,  active employment shall not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of Optionee s termination of employment (whether or not in
breach of local labor laws), Optionee s right to exercise the Option after termination of employment, if any, shall be measured by the date of termination of active employment and shall not be extended by any notice period mandated under local
law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when Optionee is no longer actively employed for purposes of this Option;      (n) the Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s acquisition or sale of the
underlying Shares;      (o) Optionee is hereby advised to consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial
advisors regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan; and      (p) Optionee
will notify the Company of any change in address as indicated below.      16.  Language . If Optionee has received this Option Agreement,
the Plan or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control, unless otherwise prescribed by
local law.      17.  Waiver of Right to Jury Trial . Each party, to the fullest extent permitted by law, waives any right or expectation
against the other to trial or adjudication by a jury of any claim, cause or action arising with respect to the Option or hereunder, or the rights, duties or liabilities created hereby.      18.  Agreement Severable . In the event that any provision of this Option Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be
severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Option Agreement.      19.  Governing Law and Venue . The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) shall govern this Option Agreement and its interpretation. For purposes of litigating any dispute that
arises with respect to this Option, this Option Agreement or the Plan, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New Castle County, or the
federal courts for the United States for the District of Delaware, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.         
   10   

20.  Addendum . The Option shall be subject to the special terms and provisions (if any) set forth
in the Addendum to this Option Agreement for Optionee s country of residence. Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Addendum, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to Optionee, to the
extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not
result in any adverse accounting expense with respect to the Option. The Addendum constitutes part of this Option Agreement.      In addition,
the Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Option and any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of
the Plan and provided it does not result in adverse accounting expense to the Company, and to require Optionee to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.       [If the Option Agreement is signed in paper form, complete and execute the following:]        

OPTIONEE   

DANAHER CORPORATION    

Signature   

Signature    

Print Name   

Print Name    

Title    

Residence Address   

11   

ADDENDUM        This Addendum includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Option granted to Optionee if Optionee resides in one of the countries listed herein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the
same meanings ascribed to them in the Notice of Stock Option Grant, the Option Agreement or the Plan.      This Addendum may also include information regarding
exchange controls and certain other issues of which Optionee should be aware with respect to Optionee s participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws concerning Options in effect as of
June 2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that Optionee not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of Optionee s
participation in the Plan as the information may be out of date at the time Optionee exercises the Option or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.        In addition, this Addendum is general in nature and may not apply to Optionee s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure Optionee of any particular result.  Accordingly, Optionee is strongly advised
to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in Optionee s country apply to Optionee s specific situation.        If
Optionee resides in a country but is considered a citizen or resident of another country for purposes of the country in which Optionee resides, the information contained in this Addendum may not be applicable to Optionee.         OPTIONEES IN CHINA, ITALY, SWITZERLAND, AND VIETNAM         Method
of Exercise       Optionee acknowledges that due to regulatory requirements, and notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Option Agreement
to the contrary, Optionees residing in mainland China, Italy, Switzerland and Vietnam will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise with respect to their Options. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, Optionee understands that
Optionee needs to instruct the broker to: (i) sell all of the purchased Shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the Exercise Price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in
cash to Optionee. In the event of changes in regulatory requirements, the Company reserves the right to eliminate the cashless sell-all method of exercise requirement and, in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercise, cashless sell-to-cover
exercise or any other method of exercise and payment deemed appropriate by the Company.         
   12   

OPTIONEES IN ARGENTINA         Securities Law Notice       Optionee understands that neither the grant of the Option nor the purchase of Shares constitute a public offering as
defined by the Law 17,811, or any other Argentine law. The offering of the Option is a private placement. As such, the offering is not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.        OPTIONEES IN AUSTRALIA         Securities Law Notice
      If Optionee acquires Shares pursuant to the Option and offers his or her Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, Optionee s
offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law. Optionee should obtain legal advice on his or her disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.        OPTIONEES IN CANADA         Consent to Receive Information in English for Optionees in Quebec       The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Option Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or
instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be written in English.       Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la
r daction en anglais de cette convention, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaries intent es, directement ou indirectement, relativement   ou suite   la
pr sente convention.         OPTIONEES IN CHINA         Exchange Control Notice       Optionee understands and agrees that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, Optionee will be required to
repatriate the cash proceeds from the immediate sale of the Shares issued upon exercise to China. Optionee understands that, under local law, such repatriation of his or her cash proceeds may need to be effected through a special foreign exchange
control account established by the Company or one of its subsidiaries or by Optionee s Employer and Optionee hereby consents and agrees that any proceeds from the sale of any Shares he or she acquires may be transferred to such special account
prior to being delivered to Optionee.        OPTIONEES IN HONG KONG         Securities Law Notice       The grant of the Option and the Shares issued upon exercise of the Option do not constitute a
public offer of securities and are available only to eligible Employees.         
   13   

Please be aware that the contents of the Option Agreement, including this Addendum, and the Plan have not been reviewed
by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. Optionee is advised to exercise caution in relation to the Option. If Optionee is in any doubt about any of the contents of this Option Agreement, including this Addendum, or the Plan, Optionee should obtain
independent professional advice.        OPTIONEES IN INDIA         Exchange Control Notice       To the extent required by law, Optionee must repatriate to India foreign currency that is due or has accrued
(either by way of dividend or sales proceeds) and convert such amounts to local currency within a reasonable period of time (but not later than 90 days after receipt). If required by law, Optionee also must obtain evidence of the repatriation of
funds in the form of a foreign inward remittance certificate ( FIRC ) from the bank where Optionee deposited the foreign currency and Optionee must deliver a copy of the FIRC to the Employer.      Because exchange control regulations can change frequently and without notice, Optionee should consult his or her personal legal advisor before selling Shares to ensure
compliance with current regulations. It is Optionee s responsibility to comply with exchange control laws in India, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Optionee s failure to
comply with applicable local laws.        OPTIONEES IN ITALY         Plan Document Acknowledgement       In accepting the Option, Optionee acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan and the Option
Agreement and has reviewed the Plan and the Option Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Option Agreement, including this Addendum.      Optionee further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the following paragraphs of the Option Agreement: Tax Obligations; No
Employment Contract; Nature of Grant; Language; Governing Law and Venue; and the Data Privacy paragraph included in this Addendum.        OPTIONEES IN
KOREA         Exchange Control Notice       Exchange control
laws require Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares to repatriate the sale proceeds back to Korea within eighteen months of the sale.      If Optionee remits funds to purchase Shares, the remittance must be  confirmed  by a foreign exchange bank in Korea. To receive the confirmation, Optionee should submit the following to the foreign exchange
bank: (i) a prescribed form application; (ii) the Option Agreement, Notice of Stock Option Gant and any other Plan documents received; and (iii) certificate of employment with the local employer. Optionee should check with the bank to
determine whether there are any additional requirements.         
   14   

OPTIONEES IN MEXICO         Labor Law Acknowledgement       These provisions supplement the labor law acknowledgement contained in the Agreement:      By accepting the Options, Optionee acknowledges that he or she understands and agrees that: (i) the Option is not related to the salary and other contractual
benefits granted to Optionee by the Employer; and (ii) any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment.       Policy Statement       The invitation the Company is making under the Plan
is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any time without any liability.      The Company, with registered offices at 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, 12th Floor, Washington, D.C., United States of America, is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and, in Optionee 
case, the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way establish an employment relationship between Optionee and the Company since Optionee is participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is the Subsidiary employing
Optionee, as applicable, nor does it establish any rights between Optionee and the Employer.       Plan Document Acknowledgment       By accepting the Option grant, Optionee acknowledges that he or she has received copies of the Plan, has reviewed the Plan and the Option Agreement in their entirety and
fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Option Agreement.      In addition, by signing the Option Agreement, Optionee further
acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the terms and conditions in the Nature of Grant, Section 15 of the Option Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established:
(i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the Plan is offered by the Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and
(iv) the Company and its Subsidiaries are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the Option.      Finally, Optionee hereby
declares that he or she does not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages as a result of participation in the Plan and therefore grants a full and broad release to the Employer and the
Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan.         
   15   

Spanish Translation         Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral         Estas disposiciones complementan el reconocimiento de la ley laboral contenida en el Acuerdo:
       Por medio de la aceptaci n de la Opci n, quien tiene la opci n manifiesta que entiende y acuerda que: (i) la
Opci n no se encuentra relacionada con el salario ni con otras prestaciones contractuales concedidas al que tiene la opci n por parte del patr n; y (ii) cualquier modificaci n del Plan o su terminaci n no
constituye un cambio o desmejora en los t rminos y condiciones de empleo.         Declaraci n de Pol tica         La invitaci n por parte de la Compa  a bajo el Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compa  a se reserva el derecho
absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad.        La Compa  a, con oficinas
registradas ubicadas en 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, 12th Floor, Washington, D.C., United States of America, es la  nica responsable de la administraci n del Plan y de la participaci n en el mismo y, en el caso del que tiene la
opci n, la adquisici n de Acciones no establece de forma alguna, una relaci n de trabajo entre el que tiene la opci n y la Compa  a, ya que la participaci n en el Plan por parte del que tiene la
opci n es completamente comercial y el  nico patr n es la Subsidiaria que esta contratando al que tiene la opci n, en caso de ser aplicable, as  como tampoco establece ning n derecho entre el que tiene la
opci n y el patr n.         Reconocimiento del Plan de Documentos         Por medio de la aceptaci n de la Opci n, el que tiene la opci n reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, que el mismo ha sido revisado al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido
y aceptado las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo.        Adicionalmente, al firmar el Acuerdo, el que tiene la opci n reconoce
que ha le do, y que aprueba espec fica y expresamente los t rminos y condiciones contenidos en la Naturaleza del Otorgamiento, Apartado 15 del Acuerdo, secci n en la cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo
siguiente: (i) la participaci n en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participaci n en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compa  a de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la
participaci n en el Plan es voluntaria; y (iv) la Compa  a, as  como sus Subsidiarias no son responsables por cualquier detrimento en el valor de las Acciones en relaci n con la Opci n.    
   Finalmente, por medio de la presente quien tiene la opci n declara que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra
de la Compa  a por compensaci n, da o o perjuicio alguno como resultado de la participaci n en el Plan y en consecuencia, otorga el m s amplio finiquito a su patr n, as  como a la
Compa  a, a sus Subsidiarias con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan.          
   16   

OPTIONEES IN RUSSIA         Securities Law Notice       Optionee acknowledges that the Option Agreement, the grant of the Option, the Plan and all other materials Optionee
may receive regarding participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of securities pursuant to the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia and therefore, the securities
described in any Plan-related documents may not be used for offering or public circulation in Russia.      Optionee acknowledges that he or she may hold Shares
issued upon exercise of the Option in Optionee s account with the Company s third party administrator in the U.S. However, in no event will Shares issued to Optionee under the Plan be delivered to Optionee in Russia.         
   17   

OPTIONEES IN SINGAPORE         Securities Law Notice       The grant of the Option is being made on a private basis and is, therefore, exempt from registration in Singapore.
      Director Notification       If Optionee is a director of a
Singapore Subsidiary of the Company, Optionee must notify the Singapore Subsidiary in writing within two days of Optionee receiving or disposing of an interest ( e.g.,  Options, Shares) in the Company or any Subsidiary or within two days of
becoming a director if such an interest exists at the time. This notification alert also applies to an associate director of the Singapore Subsidiary and to a shadow director of the Singapore Subsidiary ( i.e.,  an individual who is not on the
board of directors of the Singapore Subsidiary but who has sufficient control so that the board of directors of the Singapore Subsidiary acts in accordance with the  directions and instructions  of the individual).        OPTIONEES IN SPAIN         Nature of Plan       This provision supplements Section 15 of the Option Agreement. In accepting the grant, Optionee acknowledges that he or she consents to participation in the Plan and
has received a copy of the Plan.      Optionee understands that the Company, in its sole discretion, has unilaterally and gratuitously decided to grant Options
under the Plan to individuals who may be Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or
otherwise bind the Company or Subsidiary on an ongoing basis. Consequently, Optionee understands that the Option is granted on the assumption and condition that the Option and the Shares issued upon exercise of the Option shall not become a part of
any employment contract (either with the Company or a Subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. In addition, Optionee understands that the
grant of the Option would not be made to Optionee but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, Optionee acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be
met for any reason, then any Option grant shall be null and void.       Exchange Control Notice       When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares ( i.e.,  as a result of the sale of the Shares), Optionee must inform the financial
institution receiving the payment, the basis upon which such payment is made. Optionee will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) his or her name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and
corporate domicile of Company; (iii) the amount of the payment; (iv) the currency used; (v) the country of origin; (vi) the reasons for the payment; and (vii) additional information that may be required.         
   18   

If Optionee wishes to import the ownership title of the Shares ( i.e. , share certificates) into Spain, he or she
must declare the importation of such securities to the Direcci n General de Pol tica Comercial e Inversiones Exteriores.      To participate in
the Plan, Optionee must comply with exchange control regulations in Spain that require that the purchase of Shares be declared for statistical purposes. If a Spanish financial institution executes the transaction, the institution will automatically
make the declaration on Optionee s behalf; otherwise, it is Optionee s responsibility to make the declaration. In addition, Optionee must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities each January.        OPTIONEES IN TAIWAN         Exchange Control Notice
      Optionees may acquire foreign currency, and remit the same out of Taiwan, up to US$5 million per year without justification. When remitting funds for
the purchase of Shares pursuant to the Plan, such remittances should be made through an authorized foreign exchange bank. In addition, if Optionee remits TWD$500,000 or more in a single transaction, he or she must submit a Foreign Exchange
Transaction Form to the remitting bank. If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more in a single transaction, Optionee also must provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.        OPTIONEES IN THE UNITED KINGDOM        The following replaces
Section 8(a) of the Option Agreement in its entirety:      (a)  Withholding Taxes . Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing
Optionee (the  Employer ) take with respect to any or all income tax, primary and secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions, payroll tax or other tax-related withholding attributable to or payable in connection with or pursuant to
the grant, vesting, exercise, release or assignment of any Option (the  Tax-Related Items ), Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the Option is and remains Optionee s
responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting
or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate
Optionee s liability for Tax Related Items. Further, if Optionee has relocated to a different jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former
employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.         
   19   

As a condition of the issuance of Shares upon exercise of the Option, the Company and/or the Employer
shall be entitled to withhold and Optionee agrees to pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy, all obligations of the Company and/or the Employer to account to HM Revenue   Customs
( HMRC ) for any Tax-Related Items. In this regard, Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted under local law, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items
legally payable by Optionee by one or a combination of the following: (i) require Optionee to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check; (ii) withholding cash from Optionee s wages or other
compensation payable to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) withholding from the proceeds of a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure as described in Section 4(b) above; or (iv) withholding in Shares otherwise
issuable to Optionee, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount or such other amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment using the Fair Market
Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event.      Optionee shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related
Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to account to HMRC with respect to the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items (the  Chargeable Event ) that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. If payment or
withholding is not made within 90 days of the Chargeable Event (the  Due Date ), Optionee agrees that the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall (assuming Optionee is not a director or executive officer of the Company (within
the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)), constitute a loan owed by Optionee to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. Optionee agrees that the loan will bear interest at the then-current HMRC
Official Rate and it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to above. If any of the foregoing methods of collection are not allowed under
applicable laws or if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Section, the Company may refuse to deliver the Shares acquired under the Plan.         
   20   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 6
 dex107.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.7

Exhibit 10.7 

Exhibit 10.7        DANAHER CORPORATION        2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        (US Employees)        Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2009       Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) shall have the same
defined meanings in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ).       

I.   
    NOTICE OF GRANT           Name:        Address:       The undersigned Participant
has been granted an Award of Restricted Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, as follows:       

Grant Number  
      
  ________________________________________________   

Date of Grant  
      
  ________________________________________________   

Number of Restricted Stock Units  
      
  ________________________________________________   

Expiration Date  
      
  ________________________________________________   

Vesting Schedule:  

Time-Based Vesting Criteria  
      
  The time-based vesting criteria will be satisfied with respect to 50% of the shares underlying the RSUs on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the Date of Grant.   

Performance Objective  
      
  Please see attached Addendum   

II.   
    AGREEMENT          1.  Grant of RSUs . The
Company hereby grants to the Participant named in the Notice of Grant (the  Participant ), an Award of Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) subject to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan, which is
incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.   

2.  Vesting .      (a)  Vesting Schedule . Except as may otherwise be set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan, RSUs awarded to a Participant shall
not vest until the Participant (i) satisfies the performance-based vesting criteria ( Performance Objective ), if any, applicable to such RSUs  and  (ii) continues to be actively employed with the Company or an Eligible
Subsidiary for the periods required to satisfy the time-based vesting criteria ( Time-Based Vesting Criteria ) applicable to such RSUs. The Performance Objective and Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to RSUs are collectively referred
to as  Vesting Conditions,  and the earliest date upon which all Vesting Conditions are satisfied is referred to as the  Vesting Date.  The Vesting Conditions for an RSU received by a Participant shall be established by the
Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) (or by one or more members of Company management, if such power has been delegated in accordance with the Plan and applicable law) and reflected in the account maintained for the Participant by an
external third party administrator of the RSU awards. Further, during any approved leave of absence, the Committee shall have discretion to provide that the vesting of the RSUs shall be frozen as of the first day of the leave and shall not resume
until and unless the Participant returns to active employment prior to the Expiration Date of the RSUs.      (b)  Performance
Objective . The Committee shall determine whether the Performance Objective applicable to an RSU has been met, and such determination shall be final and conclusive. Until the Committee has made such a determination, the Performance Objective may
not be considered to have been satisfied. Notwithstanding any determination by the Committee that the Performance Objective has been attained with respect to particular RSUs, such RSUs shall not be considered to have vested unless and until the
Participant has satisfied the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to such RSUs.      (c)  Age 65 . Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to all RSUs held by a Participant shall be deemed 100% satisfied upon the Participant s attainment of age 65 while employed; provided that such RSUs shall remain subject to any applicable
Performance Objective that remains unsatisfied as of such date.      (d)  Fractional RSU Vesting . In the event the
Participant is vested in a fractional portion of an RSU (a  Fractional Portion ), such Fractional Portion will be rounded up and converted into a whole share of Common Stock ( Share ) and issued to the Participant.     3.  Form and Timing of Payment . Each RSU represents the right to receive one Share of Common Stock of the Company on the date it vests. Unless and
until the RSUs have vested in the manner set forth in Sections 2 and 4, Participant shall have no right to payment of any such RSUs. Prior to actual payment of any vested RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable
(if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. Subject to the other terms of the Plan and this Agreement, any RSUs that vest in accordance with Sections 2 and 4 will be paid to the Participant in whole Shares within 30 days of the Vesting
Date.         
   2   

4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  General . In the event the Participant s active employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary terminates for any
reason (other than death or Retirement), all unvested RSUs shall be automatically forfeited by the Participant as of the date of termination.      (b)  Death . Upon Participant s death, a pro rata amount of the outstanding RSUs scheduled to vest on a particular Vesting Date shall become vested based on the number of complete twelve-month periods
between the Date of Grant and the date of the Participant s death divided by the total number of twelve-month periods between the Date of Grant and the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or this Agreement to the
contrary, for purposes of this Section, any partial twelve-month period between the Date of Grant and the date of death shall be considered a complete twelve-month period and any Fractional Portion that results from applying the pro rata methodology
shall be rounded up to a whole Share.      (c)  Normal Retirement . In the event the Participant voluntarily terminates his
or her employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary at or after reaching age 65, and as of the date of the Participant s Normal Retirement the Participant holds RSUs that remain subject to any Performance Objective, the RSUs shall
remain outstanding for up to the fifth anniversary of such date (or if earlier, up to the Expiration Date (if any) of the RSUs) to determine whether such conditions become satisfied (and if the Committee determines that the Performance Objectives
are satisfied within such period, the RSUs shall become fully vested).      (d)  Early Retirement . In the event the
Participant voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary prior to age 65  and  the Committee determines that the cessation of Participant s employment constitutes Early Retirement, (i) the
Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to any portion of any RSUs scheduled to vest during the five (5) year period following the date of the Participant s Retirement shall be deemed 100% satisfied; (ii) any portion of such RSUs
subject to Time-Based Vesting Criteria not scheduled to vest until after the fifth anniversary of the Participant s Retirement shall be immediately forfeited without consideration; and (iii) if the Participant holds RSUs described in
(i) above that remain subject to any Performance Objective, the RSUs shall remain outstanding for up to the fifth anniversary of such date (or if earlier, up to the Expiration Date (if any) of the RSUs) to determine whether such conditions
become satisfied (and if the Committee determines that the Performance Objectives are satisfied within such period, the RSUs shall become fully vested).      (e)  Gross Misconduct . If the Participant s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary is terminated for Gross Misconduct, the Participant s unvested RSUs shall be forfeited immediately as
of the time of termination without consideration.         
   3   

(f)  Violation of Post-Employment Covenant . To the extent that any of the
Participant s RSUs remain outstanding under the terms of the Plan or this Agreement after termination of the Participant s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary, such RSUs shall nevertheless expire as of the date the
Participant violates any covenant not to compete or other post-employment covenant that exists between the Participant on the one hand and the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand.      (g)  Substantial Corporate Change . Upon a Substantial Corporate Change, the Participant s outstanding RSUs shall terminate
unless provision is made for the assumption or substitution of such RSUs as provided in Section 16(b) of the Plan.      5.
 Non-Transferability of RSUs . Unless the Committee determines otherwise in advance in writing, RSUs may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution. The terms of the Plan and this Agreement
shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and permitted successors and assigns of the Participant.      6.  Amendment of
RSUs or Plan . The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with
respect to the subject matter hereof. Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. The Company s Board may amend,
modify or terminate the Plan or any RSUs in any respect at any time; provided, however, that modifications to this Agreement or the Plan that adversely affect the Participant s rights hereunder can be made only in an express written contract
signed by the Company and the Participant. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Company reserves the right to revise this Agreement and Participant s rights under outstanding RSUs as it deems necessary or
advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, (1) upon a Substantial Corporate Change, (2) as required by law, or (3) to comply with Section 409A or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional
tax or income recognition under Section 409A in connection to this award of RSUs.      7.  Tax Obligations .      (a)  Withholding Taxes . Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing the Participant (the  Employer )
takes with respect to any or all federal, state, local or foreign income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax related items ( Tax Related Items ), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for
all Tax Related Items associated with the RSUs is and remains the Participant s responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in
connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to, the grant or vesting of the RSUs, the delivery of the Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents; and
(ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate the Participant s liability for Tax Related Items.      Prior to the relevant taxable event, Participant shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer
(in its sole discretion) to satisfy all withholding and payment on account obligations for Tax Related Items of the Company and/or  
       
   4   

the Employer. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, in its sole discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to
all Tax Related Items legally payable by the Participant by one or a combination of the following: (i) require the Participant to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check; (ii) withholding cash from the
Participant s wages or other compensation payable to the Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant upon vesting of the RSUs (on Participant s behalf
and at Participant s direction pursuant to this authorization); (iv) withholding from the proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs; or (v) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant, provided
that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event. Participant shall pay to the Company or the
Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan that are not satisfied by any of the means previously described. For the avoidance
of doubt, in no event will the Company and/or the Employer withhold more than the minimum amount of Tax Related Items required by law, nor shall any Participant have the right to require the Company and/or Employer to withhold more than such amount.
The Company may refuse to deliver the Shares to the Participant if the Participant fails to comply with Participant s obligations in connection with the Tax Related Items as described in this Section.      (b)  Code Section 409A . Payments made pursuant to this Plan and the Agreement are intended to qualify for an exemption from or
comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( Section 409A ). Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement, the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole
discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Agreement to ensure that all RSUs granted to Participants who are United States taxpayers are made in such a manner that either qualifies for exemption from or complies with
Section 409A; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations that the Plan or the RSUs shall be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Plan or any
RSUs granted thereunder. If this Agreement fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the Participant by Section 409A,
and the Participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Section 409A.      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to the Participant under this Agreement. For purposes of
Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Section 409A) made under this Agreement shall be considered a  separate payment.  In addition, for purposes of Section 409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the
definition of deferred compensation under Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (i) the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and (ii) (with respect to amounts paid as
separation pay no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing the Participant s  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Section 409A)) the  two years/two-times  separation
pay exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated by reference.         
   5   

If the Participant is a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A (and as applied
according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Agreement constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from
Section 409A), and to the extent required by Section 409A, no payments due under this Agreement may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s separation from service, or
(ii) the Participant s date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following the
Participant s separation from service.      8.  Rights as Shareholder . Until all requirements for vesting of the RSUs pursuant to
the terms of this Agreement and the Plan have been satisfied, the Participant shall not be deemed to be a shareholder or to have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any Shares.      9.  Additional Conditions to Issuance of Shares . Shares shall not be issued under the Plan unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares comply
with (or are exempt from) all applicable requirements of law, including (without limitation) the Securities Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws and regulations, and the regulations of any stock exchange or
other securities market on which the Company s securities may then be traded. The Committee may require the Participant to take any reasonable action in order to comply with any such rules or regulations.      Furthermore, unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the Shares issued upon vesting of an RSU, the Committee may require that the
Participant agree in writing to acquire such Shares for investment and not for public resale or distribution, unless and until the Shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act. The Committee may also require the Participant to
acknowledge that he or she shall not sell or transfer such Shares except in compliance with all applicable laws, and may apply such other restrictions as it deems appropriate. The Participant also acknowledges that the U.S. federal securities laws
prohibit trading in the stock of the Company by persons who are in possession of material, non-public information, and also acknowledges and understands the other restrictions set forth in the Company s Insider Trading Policy.      10.  No Employment Contract . Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement constitutes an employment contract between the Company and the Participant and
this Agreement shall not confer upon the Participant any right to continuation of employment with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, nor shall this Agreement interfere in any way with the Company s or any of its Subsidiaries right to
terminate the Participant s employment or at any time, with or without cause (subject to any employment agreement a Participant may otherwise have with the Company or a Subsidiary thereof and/or applicable law).      11.  Board Authority . The Board and/or the Committee shall have the power to interpret this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the
administration, interpretation and application of the Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether any RSUs have vested). All interpretations and
determinations made by the Board and/or the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding  
       
   6   

upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons and such determinations of the Board and/or the Committee do not have to be uniform nor do
they have to consider whether Participants are similarly situated. No member of the Board and/or the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to this Agreement.   
  12.  Headings . The captions used in this Agreement and the Plan are inserted for convenience and shall not be deemed to be a part of the RSUs
for construction and interpretation.      13.  Electronic Delivery .      (a) If the Participant executes this Agreement electronically, for the avoidance of doubt Participant acknowledges and agrees that his or
her execution of this Agreement electronically (through an on-line system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, or otherwise) shall have the same binding legal effect as would execution of this
Agreement in paper form. Participant acknowledges that upon request of the Company he or she shall also provide an executed, paper form of this Agreement.      (b) If the Participant executes this Agreement in paper form, for the avoidance of doubt the parties acknowledge and agree that it is their intent that any agreement previously or subsequently entered into between the
parties that is executed electronically shall have the same binding legal effect as if such agreement were executed in paper form.      (c) If Participant executes this Agreement multiple times (for example, if the Participant first executes this Agreement in electronic form and subsequently executes this Agreement in paper form), the Participant acknowledges and agrees
that (i) no matter how many versions of this Agreement are executed and in whatever medium, this Agreement only evidences a single Award relating to the number of RSUs set forth in the Notice of Grant and (ii) this Agreement shall be
effective as of the earliest execution of this Agreement by the parties, whether in paper form or electronically, and the subsequent execution of this Agreement in the same or a different medium shall in no way impair the binding legal effect of
this Agreement as of the time of original execution.      (d) The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver by
electronic means any documents related to the RSUs, to participation in the Plan, or to future awards granted under the Plan, or otherwise required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to the Plan or under applicable law, including but not
limited to, the Plan, the Agreement, the Plan prospectus and any reports of the Company generally provided to shareholders. Such means of electronic delivery may include, but do not necessarily include, the delivery of a link to the Company s
intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of documents via electronic mail ( e-mail ) or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company. By executing this Agreement,
the Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery. At the Participant s written request to the Secretary of the Company, the Company shall provide a paper copy of any document at no cost to the Participant.
        
   7   

14.    Data Privacy . Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to
the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her Data (as defined below) by and among, as necessary and applicable, the Employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering
and managing Participant s participation in the Plan and in the Company s Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Option Plan (the  1998 Plan ).          Participant understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but
not limited to, Participant s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, and job title, any Common Stock or directorships held in the Company,
and details of the RSUs or any other restricted stock units or other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Participant s favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan
( Data ). Participant understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in Participant s country or
elsewhere, and that the recipients  country may have different data privacy laws and protections than Participant s country. Participant authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or
other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan and/or in the 1998 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with
whom Participant may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs or any other restricted stock units or other entitlement to Shares.          Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by
contacting his or her local human resources representative. Participant understands that Data shall be held as long as is reasonably necessary to implement, administer and manage his or her participation in the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan, and he or
she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or
her local human resources representative. Participant understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing such consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan. In addition, Participant understands that the
Company and its Subsidiaries have separately implemented procedures for the handling of Data which the Company believes permits the Company to use the Data in the manner set forth above notwithstanding the Participant s withdrawal of such
consent. For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.        15.  Waiver of Right to Jury Trial . Each party, to the fullest extent permitted by law, waives any right or expectation against the other to trial
or adjudication by a jury of any claim, cause or action arising with respect to the RSUs or hereunder, or the rights, duties or liabilities created hereby.         
   8   

16.  Agreement Severable . In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid
or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.      17.  Governing Law . The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) shall govern this Agreement and its interpretation.
For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or the Plan, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the
courts of New Castle County, or the federal courts for the United States for the District of Delaware, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.      Participant acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and the prospectus relating thereto; represents that he or she has read and is familiar with the terms and provisions thereof and has had an opportunity to obtain
the advice of counsel prior to executing this Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Agreement and the Plan; and hereby accepts the RSUs subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof. Participant hereby agrees to accept as
binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Plan or this Agreement. Participant further agrees to notify the Company upon any change in his or her residence address.
     [ If the Agreement is signed in paper form, complete and execute the following: ]       

PARTICIPANT   

DANAHER CORPORATION    

Signature   

Signature    

Print Name   

Print Name    

Title    

Residence Address   

9   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 7
 dex108.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

Exhibit 10.8 

Exhibit 10.8        DANAHER CORPORATION        2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        (Non-US Employees)       Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan
(the  Plan ) shall have the same defined meanings in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ).       

I.   
    NOTICE OF GRANT           Name:        Address:       The undersigned Participant
has been granted an Award of Restricted Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, as follows:       

Grant Number   
     
  ___________________________________________   

Date of Grant   
     
  ___________________________________________   

Number of Restricted Stock Units   
     
  ___________________________________________   

Expiration Date   
     
  ___________________________________________   

Vesting Schedule   

Time-Based Vesting Criteria   
     
  ___________________________________________   

and/or   

[Performance Objective]   
     
  ___________________________________________   

II.   
    AGREEMENT          1.  Grant of RSUs . The
Company hereby grants to Participant named in the Notice of Grant (the  Participant ), an Award of Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) subject to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan, which is incorporated
herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.   

2.  Vesting .      (a)  Vesting Schedule . Except as may otherwise be set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan, RSUs awarded to a Participant shall
not vest until Participant (i) satisfies the performance-based vesting criteria ( Performance Objective ), if any, applicable to such RSUs  and  (ii) continues to be actively employed with the Company or an Eligible
Subsidiary for the periods required to satisfy the time-based vesting criteria ( Time-Based Vesting Criteria ) applicable to such RSUs. The Performance Objective and Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to RSUs are collectively referred
to as  Vesting Conditions,  and the earliest date upon which all Vesting Conditions are satisfied is referred to as the  Vesting Date.  The Vesting Conditions for an RSU received by a Participant shall be established by the
Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) (or by one or more members of Company management, if such power has been delegated in accordance with the Plan and applicable law) and reflected in the account maintained for Participant by an
external third party administrator of the RSU awards. Further, during any approved leave of absence, the Committee shall have discretion to provide that the vesting of the RSUs shall be frozen as of the first day of the leave and shall not resume
until and unless Participant returns to active employment prior to the Expiration Date of the RSUs.      (b)  Performance
Objective . The Committee shall determine whether the Performance Objective applicable to an RSU has been met, and such determination shall be final and conclusive. Until the Committee has made such a determination, the Performance Objective may
not be considered to have been satisfied. Notwithstanding any determination by the Committee that the Performance Objective has been attained with respect to particular RSUs, such RSUs shall not be considered to have vested unless and until
Participant has satisfied the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to such RSUs.      (c)  Age 65 . Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to all RSUs held by a Participant shall be deemed 100% satisfied upon Participant s attainment of age 65; provided that such RSUs shall remain subject to any applicable Performance Objective
that remains unsatisfied as of such date.      (d)  Fractional RSU Vesting . In the event Participant is vested in a
fractional portion of an RSU (a  Fractional Portion ), such Fractional Portion will not be converted into a share of Common Stock ( Share ) or issued to Participant. Instead, the Fractional Portion will remain
unconverted until the final Vesting Date for the RSUs;  provided, however , if Participant vests in a subsequent Fractional Portion prior to the final Vesting Date for the RSUs and such Fractional Portion taken together with a
previous Fractional Portion accrued by Participant under this Award would equal or exceed a whole Share, then such Fractional Portions will be converted into one Share;  provided, further , that following such conversion, any
remaining Fractional Portion will remain unconverted. Upon the final Vesting Date, the Company will not issue fractional Shares of Common Stock, but the Committee may, in its discretion, direct the Company to make a cash payment in lieu of
fractional Shares.         
   2   

3.  Form and Timing of Payment . Each RSU
represents the right to receive one Share of Common Stock of the Company on the date it vests. Unless and until the RSUs have vested in the manner set forth in Sections 2 and 4, Participant shall have no right to payment of any such RSUs. Prior to
actual payment of any vested RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. Subject to the other terms of the Plan and this Agreement, any RSUs that vest in
accordance with Sections 2 and 4 will be paid to Participant in whole Shares, on, or as soon as practicable after, the Vesting Date, but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is 2    1   /  2   months from the end of (i) Participant s tax year that includes the applicable Vesting Date, or (ii) the
Company s tax year that includes the applicable Vesting Date (which payment is intended to comply with the  short-term deferral  exemption from the application of Section 409A ( Section 409A ) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code )).       4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  General . In the event Participant s active employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary terminates for any reason
(other than death or Retirement), all unvested RSUs shall be automatically forfeited by Participant as of the date of termination.      (b)  Death . Upon Participant s death, a pro rata amount of the outstanding RSUs scheduled to vest on a particular Vesting Date shall become vested based on the number of complete twelve-month periods between the Date of Grant and
the date of Participant s death divided by the total number of twelve-month periods between the Date of Grant and the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, for purposes of this Section,
any partial twelve-month period between the Date of Grant and the date of death shall be considered a complete twelve-month period and any Fractional Portion that results from applying the pro rata methodology shall be rounded up to a whole Share.
     (c)  Normal Retirement . In the event Participant voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company or an
Eligible Subsidiary at or after reaching age 65, and as of the date of Participant s Normal Retirement Participant holds RSUs that remain subject to any Performance Objective, the RSUs shall remain outstanding for up to the fifth anniversary of
such date (or if earlier, up to the Expiration Date (if any) of the RSUs) to determine whether such conditions become satisfied (and if the Committee determines that the Performance Objectives are satisfied within such period, the RSUs shall become
fully vested).      (d)  Early Retirement . In the event Participant voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the
Company or an Eligible Subsidiary prior to age 65  and  the Committee determines that the cessation of Participant s employment constitutes Early Retirement, (i) the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to any portion of any RSUs
scheduled to vest during the five (5) year period following the date of Participant s Retirement shall be deemed 100% satisfied; (ii) any portion of such RSUs subject to Time-Based Vesting Criteria not scheduled to vest until after
the fifth anniversary of Participant s Retirement shall be immediately forfeited without consideration; and (iii) if Participant holds RSUs described in (i) above that remain subject to any Performance Objective, the RSUs shall remain
outstanding for up to the fifth anniversary of such date (or if earlier, up to the Expiration Date (if any) of the RSUs) to determine whether such conditions become satisfied (and if the Committee determines that the Performance Objectives are
satisfied within such period, the RSUs shall become fully vested).         
   3   

(e)  Gross Misconduct . If Participant s employment with the Company or an
Eligible Subsidiary is terminated for Gross Misconduct, Participant s unvested RSUs shall be forfeited immediately as of the time of termination without consideration.      (f)  Violation of Post-Employment Covenant . To the extent that any of Participant s RSUs remain outstanding under the terms of
the Plan or this Agreement after termination of Participant s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary, such RSUs shall nevertheless expire as of the date Participant violates any covenant not to compete or other post-employment
covenant that exists between Participant on the one hand and the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand.      (g)  Substantial Corporate Change . Upon a Substantial Corporate Change, Participant s outstanding RSUs shall terminate unless provision is made for the assumption or substitution of such RSUs as provided in Section 16(b) of
the Plan.      5.  Non-Transferability of RSUs . Unless the Committee determines otherwise in advance in writing, RSUs may not be
transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution. The terms of the Plan and this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and permitted successors and assigns of Participant.
     6.  Amendment of RSUs or Plan . The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the
subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof. Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in
reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. The Company s Board may amend, modify or terminate the Plan or any RSUs in any respect at any time; provided, however, that modifications to this
Agreement or the Plan that adversely affect Participant s rights hereunder can be made only in an express written contract signed by the Company and Participant. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the
Company reserves the right to revise this Agreement and Participant s rights under outstanding RSUs as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of Participant, (1) upon a Substantial Corporate Change,
(2) as required by law, or (3) to comply with Section 409A or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A in connection to this award of RSUs.      7.  Tax Obligations .      (a)  Withholding Taxes . Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing Participant (the  Employer ) take with respect to any or all federal, state, local or foreign income tax, social insurance, payroll
tax, payment on account or other tax related items ( Tax Related Items ), Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the RSUs is and remains Participant s responsibility and that the
Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the  
       
   4   

treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to, the grant or vesting of the RSUs, the delivery
of the Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate
Participant s liability for Tax Related Items. Further, if Participant has relocated to a different jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any taxable event, Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or
former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      Prior to the relevant taxable event, Participant shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer (in its sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, Participant authorizes the
Company and/or the Employer, in its sole discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by Participant by one or a combination of the following: (i) require Participant to pay Tax-Related Items in
cash with a cashier s check or certified check; (ii) withholding cash from Participant s wages or other compensation payable to Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise
issuable to Participant upon vesting of the RSUs (on Participant s behalf and at Participant s direction pursuant to this authorization); (iv) withholding from the proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs; or
(v) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to Participant, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount or such other amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse
accounting treatment using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event. Participant shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to
withhold as a result of Participant s participation in the Plan that are not satisfied by any of the means previously described. The Company may refuse to deliver the Shares to Participant if Participant fails to comply with Participant s
obligations in connection with the Tax Related Items as described in this Section.      (b)  Code Section 409A .
Payments made pursuant to this Plan and the Agreement are intended to qualify for an exemption from or comply with Section 409A. Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement, the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems
necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Agreement to ensure that all RSUs granted to Participants who are United States taxpayers are made in such a manner that either qualifies for
exemption from or complies with Section 409A; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations that the Plan or the RSUs shall be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A
from applying to the Plan or any RSUs granted thereunder.      8.  Rights as Shareholder . Until all requirements for vesting of the RSUs
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan have been satisfied, Participant shall not be deemed to be a shareholder or to have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any Shares.      9.  Additional Conditions to Issuance of Shares . Shares shall not be issued under the Plan unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares comply
with (or are exempt from) all applicable requirements of law, including (without limitation) the Securities Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws and regulations, and the regulations of any stock exchange or
other securities market on which the Company s securities may then be traded. The Committee may require Participant to take any reasonable action in order to comply with any such rules or regulations.         
   5   

Furthermore, unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the Shares issued upon
vesting of an RSU, the Committee may require that Participant agree in writing to acquire such Shares for investment and not for public resale or distribution, unless and until the Shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act.
The Committee may also require Participant to acknowledge that he or she shall not sell or transfer such Shares except in compliance with all applicable laws, and may apply such other restrictions as it deems appropriate. Participant also
acknowledges that the U.S. federal securities laws prohibit trading in the stock of the Company by persons who are in possession of material, non-public information, and also acknowledges and understands the other restrictions set forth in the
Company s Insider Trading Policy.      10.  No Employment Contract . Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement constitutes an employment
contract between the Company and Participant and this Agreement shall not confer upon Participant any right to continuation of employment with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, nor shall this Agreement interfere in any way with the
Company s or any of its Subsidiaries right to terminate Participant s employment at any time, with or without cause (subject to any employment agreement a Participant may otherwise have with the Company or a Subsidiary thereof and/or
applicable law).      11.  Board Authority . The Board and/or the Committee shall have the power to interpret this Agreement and to adopt
such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether any RSUs have vested). All
interpretations and determinations made by the Board and/or the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons and such determinations of the Board and/or the Committee do not have
to be uniform nor do they have to consider whether Participants are similarly situated. No member of the Board and/or the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to this
Agreement.      12.  Headings . The captions used in this Agreement and the Plan are inserted for convenience and shall not be deemed to
be a part of the RSUs for construction and interpretation.      13.  Electronic Delivery .      (a) If Participant executes this Agreement electronically, for the avoidance of doubt Participant acknowledges and agrees that his or her
execution of this Agreement electronically (through an on-line system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, or otherwise) shall have the same binding legal effect as would execution of this
Agreement in paper form. Participant acknowledges that upon request of the Company he or she shall also provide an executed, paper form of this Agreement.         
   6   

(b) If Participant executes this Agreement in paper form, for the avoidance of doubt the
parties acknowledge and agree that it is their intent that any agreement previously or subsequently entered into between the parties that is executed electronically shall have the same binding legal effect as if such agreement were executed in paper
form.      (c) If Participant executes this Agreement multiple times (for example, if Participant first executes this Agreement
in electronic form and subsequently executes this Agreement in paper form), Participant acknowledges and agrees that (i) no matter how many versions of this Agreement are executed and in whatever medium, this Agreement only evidences a single
Award relating to the number of RSUs set forth in the Notice of Grant and (ii) this Agreement shall be effective as of the earliest execution of this Agreement by the parties, whether in paper form or electronically, and the subsequent
execution of this Agreement in the same or a different medium shall in no way impair the binding legal effect of this Agreement as of the time of original execution.      (d) The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver by electronic means any documents related to the RSUs, to participation in
the Plan, or to future awards granted under the Plan, or otherwise required to be delivered to Participant pursuant to the Plan or under applicable law, including but not limited to, the Plan, the Agreement, the Plan prospectus and any reports of
the Company generally provided to shareholders. Such means of electronic delivery may include, but do not necessarily include, the delivery of a link to the Company s intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the
Plan, the delivery of documents via electronic mail ( e-mail ) or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company. By executing this Agreement, Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery.
At Participant s written request to the Secretary of the Company, the Company shall provide a paper copy of any document at no cost to Participant.          14.    Data Privacy . Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her Data (as defined below) by and
among, as necessary and applicable, the Employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan and in the Company s Amended and Restated 1998
Stock Option Plan (the  1998 Plan ).          Participant understands that the Company and the Employer may
hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but not limited to, Participant s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality,
and job title, any Common Stock or directorships held in the Company, and details of the RSUs or any other restricted stock units or other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Participant s favor, for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan ( Data ). Participant understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the
Plan and/or the 1998 Plan, that these recipients may be located in Participant s country or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country may have different data privacy laws and protections than Participant s country. Participant
authorizes the recipients to receive,    
       
   7   

possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing
Participant s participation in the Plan and/or in the 1998 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon vesting of
the RSUs or any other restricted stock units or other entitlement to Shares.          Participant understands that he
or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative. Participant understands that Data shall be held as long as is reasonably necessary to
implement, administer and manage his or her participation in the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan, and he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data
or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. Participant understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing such consent may affect his or her ability
to participate in the Plan and/or the 1998 Plan. In addition, Participant understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries have separately implemented procedures for the handling of Data which the Company believes permits the Company to use the
Data in the manner set forth above notwithstanding Participant s withdrawal of such consent. For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her
local human resources representative.        15.  Nature of RSUs . In accepting the RSUs, Participant acknowledges that:   
  (a) Participant has received a copy of the Plan and the prospectus relating thereto; he or she has read and is familiar with the terms
and provisions thereof and has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Agreement and the Plan and hereby accepts the RSUs subject to all of the terms and
provisions thereof;      (b) Participant shall accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the
Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan or this Agreement;      (c) the award of RSUs is voluntary and
occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been awarded repeatedly in the past;      (d) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;      (e) Participant s participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (f) the award of RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are an extraordinary item that (i) does not constitute compensation of any
kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or any Subsidiary, and (ii) is outside the scope of Participant s employment or service contract, if any;       
  
   8   

(g) the award of RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are not part of normal or
expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or
similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or any Subsidiary;      (h) the award of RSUs and Participant s participation in the Plan shall not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company;      (i) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;      (j) the value of the Shares acquired upon vesting/settlement of the RSUs may increase or decrease in value;      (k) in consideration of the award of RSUs, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Award or
from any diminution in value of the Award or Shares upon vesting of the Award resulting from termination of Participant s continuous service by the Company or any Subsidiary (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor
laws) and in consideration of the grant of the Award, Participant irrevocably releases the Company and any Subsidiary from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction
to have arisen, then, by signing the Agreement/electronically accepting the Agreement, Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Participant s entitlement to pursue or seek remedy for any such claim;      (l) in the event of termination of Participant s employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), Participant s right
to receive RSUs under the Plan and the vesting of such RSUs, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that Participant is no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active
employment would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when Participant is no longer actively employed for purposes of
Participant s RSUs;      (m) the Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any
recommendations regarding Participant s participation in the Plan or Participant s acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares;      (n) Participant is hereby advised to consult with Participant s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Participant s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan;
and      (o) Participant will notify the Company of any change in address.         
   9   

16.  Language . If Participant has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan
translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control, unless otherwise prescribed by local law.      17.  Waiver of Right to Jury Trial . Each party, to the fullest extent permitted by law, waives any right or expectation against the other to trial
or adjudication by a jury of any claim, cause or action arising with respect to the RSUs or hereunder, or the rights, duties or liabilities created hereby.      18.  Agreement Severable . In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be
construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.      19.  Governing Law and Venue . The laws of the State of
Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) shall govern this Agreement and its interpretation. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or the Plan, the parties hereby submit to and consent
to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New Castle County, or the federal courts for the United States for the District of Delaware, where this grant is made and/or to be
performed.      20.  Addendum . The RSUs shall be subject to the special terms and provisions (if any) set forth in the Addendum to this
Agreement for Participant s country of residence. Moreover, if Participant relocates to one of the countries included in the Addendum, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to Participant, to the extent the Company
determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Addendum constitutes part of this Agreement.      In addition, the Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the RSU and any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company
determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
        
   10   

[If the Agreement is signed in paper form, complete and execute the following:]       

PARTICIPANT   

DANAHER CORPORATION    

Signature   

Signature    

Print Name   

Print Name    

Title    

Residence Address   

11   

ADDENDUM        This Addendum includes additional terms and conditions that govern the RSUs granted to Participant if Participant resides in one of the countries listed herein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have
the same meanings ascribed to them in the Notice of Grant, the Agreement or the Plan.      This Addendum may also include information regarding exchange
controls and certain other issues of which Participant should be aware with respect to Participant s participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws concerning RSUs in effect as of June
2008. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that Participant not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of Participant s
participation in the Plan as the information may be out of date at the time Participant vests in the RSUs or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.        In addition, this Addendum is general in nature and may not apply to Participant s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure Participant of any particular result.  Accordingly, Participant is
strongly advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in Participant s country apply to Participant s specific situation.        If Participant resides in a country but is considered a citizen or resident of another country for purposes of the country in which Participant resides, the information contained in this Addendum may not be
applicable to Participant.         PARTICIPANTS IN ARGENTINA         Securities Law Notice       Participant understands that neither the grant of the RSUs nor the Shares to be issued
pursuant to the Award constitute a public offering as defined by the Law 17,811, or any other Argentine law. The offering of the RSUs is a private placement. As such, the offering is not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental
authority.        PARTICIPANTS IN AUSTRALIA         RSUs
Payable Only in Shares       RSUs granted to Participants in Australia shall be paid in Shares only and do not provide any right for Participants to receive
a cash payment, notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan, or any provision in the Agreement to the contrary.         
   12   

Securities Law Notice       If Participant acquires Shares pursuant to the vesting/settlement of the RSUs and offers his or her Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, Participant s offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under
Australian law. Participant should obtain legal advice on his or her disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.        PARTICIPANTS IN CANADA
        Consent to Receive Information in English for Participants in Quebec       The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly
hereto, be written in English.       Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais de cette convention, ainsi que de tous
documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaries intent es, directement ou indirectement, relativement   ou suite   la pr sente convention.        RSUs Payable Only in Shares       RSUs granted to Participants in Canada
shall be paid in Shares only. In no event shall any of such RSUs be paid in cash, notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan, or any provision in the Agreement to the contrary.        PARTICIPANTS IN CHINA         Exchange Control Information       Participant understands and agrees that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, Participant will be required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of
the Shares issued upon conversion of the RSUs to China. Participant understands that, under local law, such repatriation of his or her cash proceeds may need to be effected through a special foreign exchange control account established by the
Company or one of its subsidiaries or by Participant s Employer and Participant hereby consents and agrees that any proceeds from the sale of any Shares he or she acquires may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to
Participant.      Furthermore, to facilitate compliance with any applicable laws or regulations in China, Participant agrees and acknowledges that the Company
(or a brokerage firm instructed by the Company) is entitled to either (1) immediately sell all Shares issued to Participant at vesting (on Participant s behalf and at Participant s direction pursuant to this authorization) or
(2) sell the Shares acquired at vesting if Participant ceases employment with the Company or any Subsidiary (on Participant s behalf and at Participant s direction pursuant to this authorization). In this event, the proceeds of the
sale of such Shares, less any Tax-Related Items and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to Participant in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations.         
   13   

In addition, please note that exchange control restrictions may limit Participant s ability to access and/or convert
funds received under the Plan, particularly if these amounts exceed US$50,000. Participant should confirm the procedures and requirements for withdrawals and conversions of foreign currency with his or her local bank prior to the vesting of the
RSUs/sale of the Shares.        PARTICIPANTS IN FRANCE         Consent to Receive Information in English       By accepting the RSUs, Participant confirms having read and understood the Plan, the Notice of
Grant, the Agreement and this Addendum, including all terms and conditions included therein, which were provided in the English language. Participant accepts the terms of those documents accordingly.        Consentement afin de Recevoir des Informations en Anglais           En acceptant les Droits sur les Actions Assorties de Restrictions, le B n ficiaire confirme qu il ou qu elle a lu et compris le Plan, la Notification d Attribution, le Contrat et les Annexes, inclus
tous les termes et conditions y relatifs, qui sont produits en langue anglaise. Le B n ficiaire accepte les termes de ces documents en cons quence  .         PARTICIPANTS IN HONG KONG         Securities Law Notice       The grant of RSUs and the Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs do not constitute a public offer of securities and are available only to eligible Employees.   
  Please be aware that the contents of the Agreement, including this Addendum, and the Plan have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. Participant
is advised to exercise caution in relation to the RSU award. If Participant is in any doubt about any of the contents of this Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, Participant should obtain independent professional advice.        PARTICIPANT IN INDIA         Exchange Control Notice
      To the extent required by law, Participant must repatriate to India foreign currency that is due or has accrued (either by way of dividend or sales
proceeds) and convert such amounts to local currency within a reasonable period of time (but not later than 90 days after receipt). If required by law, Participant also must obtain evidence of the repatriation of funds in the form of a foreign
inward remittance certificate ( FIRC ) from the bank where Participant deposited the foreign currency and Participant must deliver a copy of the FIRC to the Employer.         
   14   

Because exchange control regulations can change frequently and without notice, Participant should consult his or her
personal legal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations. It is Participant s responsibility to comply with exchange control laws in India, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines
or penalties resulting from Participant s failure to comply with applicable laws.        PARTICIPANTS IN ITALY         Plan Document Acknowledgement       In accepting the RSU, Participant
acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan and the Agreement and has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement,
including this Addendum.      Participant further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the following paragraphs of the
Agreement: Tax Obligations; No Employment Contract; Nature of RSUs; Language; Governing Law and Venue; and the Data Privacy paragraph included in this Addendum.        PARTICIPANTS IN KOREA         Exchange Control Notice       Exchange control laws require Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares to repatriate the sale proceeds back to Korea within eighteen months of the sale.        PARTICIPANTS IN MEXICO         Labor Law Acknowledgement
      These provisions supplement the labor law acknowledgement contained in the Agreement:      By accepting the RSUs, Participant acknowledges that he or she understands and agrees that: (i) the RSU is not related to the salary and other contractual benefits granted to Participant by the Employer; and
(ii) any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment.       Policy
Statement       The invitation the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right
to amend it and discontinue it at any time without any liability.      The Company, with registered offices at 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, 12th Floor,
Washington, D.C., United States of America, is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and, in Participant  case, the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way establish an employment relationship
between Participant and the Company since Participant is participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is the Subsidiary employing Participant, as applicable, nor does it establish any rights between Participant and
the Employer.         
   15   

Plan Document Acknowledgment       By accepting the RSU award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received copies of the Plan, has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.
     In addition, by signing the Agreement, Participant further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the terms and
conditions in the Nature of RSUs, Section 15 of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the
Plan is offered by the Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and its Subsidiaries are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the RSUs.
     Finally, Participant hereby declares that he or she does not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or
damages as a result of participation in the Plan and therefore grants a full and broad release to the Employer and the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan.       Spanish Translation         Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral   
      Estas disposiciones complementan el reconocimiento de la ley laboral contenida en el Acuerdo:        Por medio de la aceptaci n de la RSU, quien tiene la RSU manifiesta que entiende y acuerda que: (i) la RSU no se encuentra relacionada con el salario ni
con otras prestaciones contractuales concedidas al que tiene la RSU por parte del patr n; y (ii) cualquier modificaci n del Plan o su terminaci n no constituye un cambio o desmejora en los t rminos y condiciones de
empleo.         Declaraci n de Pol tica         La invitaci n por parte de la Compa  a bajo el Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compa  a se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento,
sin ninguna responsabilidad.        La Compa  a, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, 12th Floor, Washington,
D.C., United States of America, es la  nica responsable por la administraci n del Plan y de la participaci n en el mismo y, en el caso del que tiene la RSU, la adquisici n de Acciones no establece de forma alguna, una
relaci n de trabajo entre el que tiene la RSU y la Compa  a, ya que la participaci n en el Plan por parte del que tiene la RSU es completamente comercial y el  nico patr n es la Subsidiaria que esta
contratando al que tiene la RSU, en caso de ser aplicable, as  como tampoco establece ning n derecho entre el que tiene la RSU y el patr n.          
   16   

Reconocimiento del Plan de Documentos         Por medio de la aceptaci n de la RSU, el que tiene la RSU reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, que el mismo ha sido revisado al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado las
disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo.        Adicionalmente, al firmar el Acuerdo, el que tiene la RSU reconoce que ha le do, y que
aprueba espec fica y expresamente los t rminos y condiciones contenidos en la Naturaleza del Otorgamiento, Apartado 15 del Acuerdo, secci n en la cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la
participaci n en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participaci n en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compa  a de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la participaci n en el Plan es
voluntaria; y (iv) la Compa  a, as  como sus Subsidiarias no son responsables por cualquier detrimento en el valor de las Acciones en relaci n con la RSU.        Finalmente, por medio de la presente quien tiene la RSU declara que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la
Compa  a por compensaci n, da o o perjuicio alguno como resultado de la participaci n en el Plan y en consecuencia, otorga el m s amplio finiquito a su patr n, as  como a la
Compa  a, a sus Subsidiarias con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan.         PARTICIPANTS IN
RUSSIA         Securities Law Notice       Participant
acknowledges that the Agreement, the grant of the RSUs, the Plan and all other materials Participant may receive regarding participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of securities
pursuant to the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia and therefore, the securities described in any Plan-related documents may not be used for offering or public circulation in Russia.      Participant acknowledges that he or she may hold Shares issued under the Plan in Participant s account with the Company s third party administrator in the U.S.
However, in no event will Shares issued to Participant under the Plan be delivered to Participant in Russia.        PARTICIPANTS IN SINGAPORE  
      Securities Law Notice       The grant of the RSU is being
made on a private basis and is, therefore, exempt from registration in Singapore.         
   17   

Director Notification       If Participant is a director of a Singapore Subsidiary of the Company, Participant must notify the Singapore Subsidiary in writing within two days of Participant receiving or disposing of an interest ( e.g.,  RSUs, Shares) in the
Company or any Subsidiary or within two days of becoming a director if such an interest exists at the time. This notification alert also applies to an associate director of the Singapore Subsidiary and to a shadow director of the Singapore
Subsidiary ( i.e.,  an individual who is not on the board of directors of the Singapore Subsidiary but who has sufficient control so that the board of directors of the Singapore Subsidiary acts in accordance with the  directions and
instructions  of the individual).        PARTICIPANTS IN SPAIN         Nature of Plan       This provision supplements Section 15 of the Agreement. In accepting the grant, Participant
acknowledges that he or she consents to participation in the Plan and has received a copy of the Plan.      Participant understands that the Company, in its
sole discretion, has unilaterally and gratuitously decided to grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express
assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or Subsidiary on an ongoing basis. Consequently, Participant understands that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and the
Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or a Subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any
other right whatsoever. In addition, Participant understands that the grant of the RSUs would not be made to Participant but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, Participant acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or
all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any RSU grant shall be null and void.       Exchange
Control Notice       When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares ( i.e.,  as a result of the sale of the Shares),
Participant must inform the financial institution receiving the payment, the basis upon which such payment is made. Participant will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) his or her name, address, and fiscal
identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of Company; (iii) the amount of the payment; (iv) the currency used; (v) the country of origin; (vi) the reasons for the payment; and (vii) additional
information that may be required.      If Participant wishes to import the ownership title of the Shares ( i.e. , share certificates) into Spain, he or
she must declare the importation of such securities to the Direcci n General de Pol tica Comercial e Inversiones Exteriores.         
   18   

To participate in the Plan, Participant must comply with exchange control regulations in Spain that require that the
purchase/acquisition of Shares be declared for statistical purposes. If a Spanish financial institution executes the transaction, the institution will automatically make the declaration on Participant s behalf; otherwise, it is
Participant s responsibility to make the declaration. In addition, Participant must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities each January.        PARTICIPANTS IN TAIWAN         Exchange Control Notice       If Participant is a resident of Taiwan (including an expatriate holding an Alien Resident Certificate), he or she may acquire foreign currency and remit the same out of or into Taiwan up to US$5 million per year
without justification. If Participant is an expatriate employee who does not have an Alien Resident Certificate, he or she may remit into Taiwan and convert to local currency up to US $100,000 at each remittance with no annual limitation.
       PARTICIPANTS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM        The
following replaces Section 7(a) of the Agreement in its entirety:      (a)  Withholding Taxes . Regardless of any action the Company or any
Subsidiary employing Participant (the  Employer ) take with respect to any or all income tax, primary and secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions, payroll tax or other tax-related withholding attributable to or payable in
connection with or pursuant to the grant, vesting, release or assignment of any RSU (the  Tax-Related Items ), Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the RSUs is and remains
Participant s responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to,
the grant or vesting of the RSUs, the delivery of the Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect
of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate Participant s liability for Tax Related Items. Further, if Participant has relocated to a different jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any taxable event, Participant acknowledges that the
Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      As a condition of the issuance of Shares upon vesting of the RSU, the Company and/or the Employer shall be entitled to withhold and Participant agrees to pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company
and/or the Employer to satisfy, all obligations of the Company and/or the Employer to account to HM Revenue   Customs ( HMRC ) for any Tax-Related Items. In this regard, Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, in
its sole discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by Participant by one or a combination of the following: (i) require Participant to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check
or certified check; (ii) withholding cash from Participant s wages or other compensation payable to Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) 
       
   19   

arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise issuable to Participant upon vesting of the RSUs (on Participant s behalf and at Participant s direction
pursuant to this authorization); (iv) withholding from the proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs; or (v) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to Participant, provided that the Company withholds only the
amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount or such other amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event.
     Participant shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to
account to HMRC with respect to the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items (the  Chargeable Event ) that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. If payment or withholding is not made within 90 days of the Chargeable
Event (the  Due Date ), Participant agrees that the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall (assuming Participant is not a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)), constitute a loan owed by Participant to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. Participant agrees that the loan will bear interest at the then-current HMRC Official Rate and it will be
immediately due and repayable, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to above. If any of the foregoing methods of collection are not allowed under applicable laws or if Participant
fails to comply with Participant s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Section, the Company may refuse to deliver the Shares acquired under the Plan.         
   20   

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.9>
 8
 dex109.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.9

Exhibit 10.9 

Exhibit 10.9       DANAHER CORPORATION      1998 STOCK OPTION PLAN      Effective as of May 5, 1998      Amended as of May 1, 2001      Amended as of July 23, 2003      Amended and
Restated May 4, 2004      Amended as of May 4, 2005      Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2009       

PURPOSE  
      
  Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation (   Danaher    or the    Company   ), wishes to recruit, reward, and retain key employees and outside
directors. To further these objectives, the Company hereby sets forth the Danaher Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan (the    Plan   ), effective as of May 5, 1998, amended May 1, 2001, amended as of July 23, 2003,
and amended and restated May 4, 2004, to provide options (   Options   ) to employees to purchase shares of the Company s common stock (the    Common Stock   ). The Company may also make direct
grants of Common Stock (   Restricted Stock Grants   ) to participants as a bonus or other incentive or grant such stock in lieu of Company obligations to pay cash under other plans or compensatory arrangements, including any
deferred compensation plans, and may also grant stock appreciation rights (   SARs   ), restricted stock units (   RSUs   ), and other stock-based awards (   Other Stock-Based Awards   ).
Grants of the various equity-related instruments are    Awards.    The Plan constitutes an amendment to, and substitution for, the Danaher Corporation 1987 Stock Option Plan (the    1987
Plan   ).   

PARTICIPANTS  
      
  All Employees and non-Employee directors (   Eligible Directors   ) of Danaher and Eligible Subsidiaries are eligible for Awards under this Plan. Eligible employees and
directors become    optionees    or    recipients    when the Administrator grants them, respectively, an Option or one of the other Awards under this Plan. Optionees and recipients are referred to
collectively as    participants  .  The term    participant    also includes, where appropriate, a person authorized to exercise an Option or hold or receive another Award in place of the intended original
recipient.   

Employee    means any person employed as a common law employee of the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary.   

ADMINISTRATOR  
      
  The Administrator will be the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Danaher (the    Compensation Committee   ), unless the Board specifies another committee.
The Board may also act under the Plan as though it were the Compensation Committee.   

The Administrator is responsible for the general operation and administration of the Plan and for carrying out its provisions and has full discretion in interpreting and administering the
provisions of the Plan. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Administrator may exercise such powers and authority of the Board as the Administrator may find necessary or appropriate to carry out its functions. The Administrator may
delegate its functions (other than those described in the GRANTING OF AWARDS section) to officers or employees.   

The Administrator s powers will include, but not be limited to, the power to amend, waive, or extend any provision or limitation of any Award. The Administrator may act through meetings of
a majority of its members or by unanimous consent.   

GRANTING OF AWARDS  
      
  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Administrator will, in its sole discretion, determine   

the recipients of Awards,    

the terms of such Awards,    

the schedule for exercisability and nonforfeitability (including any requirements that the participant or the Company satisfy performance criteria or
Performance Objectives),    

the time and conditions for expiration of the Awards, and    

the form of payment due upon exercise or grant.    

The Administrator s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and need not consider whether possible participants are similarly situated.   

Options granted to employees are not intended to qualify as    incentive stock options    (   ISOs   ) within the meaning of Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the    Code   ), or the corresponding provision of any subsequently enacted tax statute. The Administrator may not reduce the Exercise Price of any outstanding Option,
other than as provided under Adjustments upon Changes in Capital Stock. Subject to the foregoing, the Administrator may set whatever conditions it considers appropriate for the Awards.   
       
   - 2 -   

Substitutions  
      
  The Administrator may also grant Awards in substitution for options or other equity interests held by individuals who become Employees of the Company or of an Eligible Subsidiary as a result
of the Company s acquiring or merging with the individual s employer. If necessary to conform the Awards to the interests for which they are substitutes, the Administrator may grant substitute Awards under terms and conditions that vary
from those the Plan otherwise requires.   

DATE OF GRANT  
      
  The    Date of Grant    will be the date as of which the Administrator grants an Award to a person, as specified in the Administrator s minutes.   

EXERCISE PRICE  
      
  The    Exercise Price    is the value of the consideration that a participant must provide in exchange for one share of Common Stock. The Administrator will determine the
Exercise Price under each Option and may set the Exercise Price without regard to the Exercise Price of any other Options granted at the same or any other time. The Company may use the consideration it receives from the optionee for general
corporate purposes.   

The Exercise Price per share for the Options may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share on the Date of Grant.   

The Administrator may satisfy any state law requirements regarding adequate consideration for Restricted Stock Grants by (i) issuing Common Stock held as treasury stock or repurchased on
the open market or (ii) charging the recipients at least the par value for the shares covered by the Restricted Stock Grant.   

Fair Market Value  
      
     Fair Market Value    of a share of Common Stock for purposes of the Plan will be determined as follows:   

if the Common Stock is traded on a national securities exchange, the closing sale price on that date;    

if the Common Stock is not traded on any such exchange, the closing sale price as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated
Quotation System (   Nasdaq   ) for such date;    

if no such closing sale price information is available, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as reported by Nasdaq for such date;
or    
       
   - 3 -   

if there are no such closing bid and asked prices, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as reported by any other commercial service for such date.

For any date that is not a trading day, the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock for such date shall be determined by using the closing sale price or the average of the closing bid
and asked prices, as appropriate, for the immediately preceding trading day.   

EXERCISABILITY  
      
  The Administrator will determine the times and conditions for exercise or retention of each Award but may not extend the period for exercise of an Option or SAR beyond the tenth anniversary
of its Date of Grant.   

Awards will become exercisable or nonforfeitable at such times and in such manner as the Administrator determines and the Award Certificate indicates; provided, however, that the
Administrator may, on such terms and conditions as it determines appropriate, accelerate the time at which the participant may exercise any portion of an Option or at which restrictions or other conditions on other Awards will
lapse.   

If the Administrator does not specify otherwise, Options for Employees will become exercisable and restrictions on other Awards will lapse as to one-fifth of the covered shares on each of the
first five anniversaries of the Date of Grant, and Options for Eligible Directors will become exercisable in full as of the Date of Grant. Subject to the section below entitled  Award Expiration,  unless the Administrator provides
otherwise, the passage of time after a participant s Retirement will continue to count for purposes of determining the extent to which an Award is exercisable or nonforfeitable.   

No portion of an Award that is unexercisable or forfeitable at a participant s termination of employment for any reason other than Retirement (as defined below) will thereafter become
exercisable or nonforfeitable, unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, either initially or by amendment. All unexpired Awards become fully exercisable or nonforfeitable, as applicable, at age 65 irrespective of whether the person then
retires, except Awards the Compensation Committee designates are covered by Performance Objectives for purposes of Code Section 162(m).   

Any RSU Award shall be paid in a lump sum in shares within 30 days of the later of the date on which the Administrator (or the Compensation Committee, as the case may be) determines that (i)
the participant has satisfied the Award s time-based vesting requirements, and (ii) if applicable, the Performance Criteria for such RSU Award has been satisfied.   
       
   - 4 -   

METHOD OF EXERCISE  
      
  To exercise any exercisable portion of an Award, the participant must:   

Deliver a written notice of exercise to the Secretary of the Company (or to whomever the Administrator designates), in a form complying with any rules the
Administrator may issue, signed by the participant, and specifying the number of shares of Common Stock underlying the portion of the Award the participant is exercising;    

Pay the full Exercise Price (if any) by cashier s or certified check for the shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Award is being exercised,
unless the Administrator consents to another form of payment (which could include the use of Common Stock); and    

Deliver to the Secretary of the Company (or to whomever the Administrator designates) such representations and documents as the Administrator, in its sole
discretion, may consider necessary or advisable.    

Payment in full of the Exercise Price need not accompany the written notice of exercise provided the notice directs that the stock certificates for the shares issued upon the exercise be
delivered to a licensed broker acceptable to the Company as the agent for the individual exercising the option and at the time the stock certificates are delivered to the broker, the broker will tender to the Company cash or cash equivalents
acceptable to the Company and equal to the Exercise Price.   

If the Administrator agrees to payment through the tender to the Company of shares of Common Stock, the individual must have held the stock being tendered for at least six months at the time
of surrender. Shares of stock offered as payment will be valued, for purposes of determining the extent to which the optionee has paid the Exercise Price, at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise. The Administrator may also, in its
discretion, accept attestation of ownership of Common Stock and issue a net number of shares upon Option exercise.   
       
   - 5 -   

AWARD EXPIRATION  
      
  No one may exercise an Option or exercisable Award more than ten years after its Date of Grant. Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, either initially or by amendment, no one may
exercise an exercisable Award (and any otherwise nonforfeitable portions of the exercisable Awards will then expire) after the first to occur of:   

Employment Termination   
      
    The 30th day after the date of termination of employment (other than for death, Disability, or Retirement), where termination of employment means the time when
the employer-employee or other service-providing relationship between the employee and the Company ends for any reason, including retirement. Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, termination of employment does not include instances in
which the Company immediately rehires a common law employee as an independent contractor. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, will determine all questions of whether particular terminations or leaves of absence are terminations of employment;

Retirement   
      
    For either Early or Normal Retirement (both as defined below and both collectively referred to as    Retirement   ), the fifth anniversary
of Retirement. Solely for purposes of this Plan,    Normal Retirement    occurs on the date an employee voluntarily ceases to be an Employee at or after reaching age 65, and    Early Retirement    occurs on
the date an employee voluntarily ceases to be an Employee if both (i) the employment termination occurs before the Employee reaches age 65 and (ii) the Administrator determines that the cessation constituted  retirement  for purposes of
this Plan. In deciding whether a termination of employment is an Early Retirement, the Administrator need not consider the definition under any other Company Plan;    

Gross Misconduct   
      
    For the Company s termination of the participant s employment as a result of the participant s Gross Misconduct, the time of such termination.
For purposes of this Plan,    Gross Misconduct    means the participant has    

(i) committed fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement, willful misconduct or gross negligence with respect to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, or any other
action in willful disregard of the interests of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof;    
       
   - 6 -   

(ii) been convicted of, or pled guilty or no contest to, (1) a felony, (2) any misdemeanor (other than a traffic violation) with respect to his/her employment,
or (3) any other crime or activity that would impair his/her ability to perform his/her duties or impair the business reputation of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof;    

(iii) refused or willfully failed to adequately perform any duties assigned to him/her; or    

(iv) refused or willfully failed to comply with standards, policies or procedures of the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, including without limitation the
Company s Standard of Conduct as amended from time to time.    

Disability   
      
    For disability, the earlier of (i) the first anniversary of the participant s termination of employment for disability and (ii) 60 days after the
participant no longer has a disability, where    disability    means the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result
in death or that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months; or    

Death   
      
    The date 12 months after the participant s death.    

If exercise is permitted after termination of employment, the Award will nevertheless expire as of the date that the former employee violates any covenant not to compete or any other
post employment covenant (including without limitation any nonsolicitation, nonpiracy of employees, nondisclosure, nondisparagement, works-made-for-hire or similar covenants) in effect between the Company and any Subsidiary thereof, on the one
hand, and the former employee on the other hand.   

Nothing in this Plan extends the term of an Award beyond the tenth anniversary of its Date of Grant, nor does anything in this AWARD EXPIRATION section make an Award exercisable or
nonforfeitable that has not otherwise become exercisable or nonforfeitable.   

AWARD CERTIFICATES  
      
  Award Certificates will set forth the terms of each Award and will include such terms and conditions, consistent with the Plan, as the Administrator may determine are necessary or advisable.
To the extent the certificate is inconsistent with the Plan, the Plan will govern. The Award Certificates may contain special rules. The Administrator may, in its discretion, require Award agreements rather than certificates.   
       
   - 7 -   

STOCK APPRECIATION     RIGHTS   
      
  A SAR represents the right to receive a payment, in cash, shares of Common Stock or both (as determined by the Administrator), equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value on the date the SAR
is exercised over the SAR s Exercise Price, if any. The Administrator will establish in its sole discretion the exercise price of a SAR and all other applicable terms and conditions, which will be set forth in the applicable Award Certificate
or Award agreement.   

OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS  
      
  The Administrator may grant RSUs and Other Stock-Based Awards that are denominated in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock. The
purchase, exercise, exchange or conversion of RSUs and Other Stock-Based Awards and all other terms and conditions applicable to the Awards will be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion and will be set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate or Award agreement.   

STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN  
      
  Except as adjusted below under CORPORATE CHANGES, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Awards may not exceed 60 million shares and the maximum number of
shares that may be subject to any and all Awards, in the aggregate, for a single individual may not exceed 10 million shares. No Award that the Committee determines is subject to Performance Objectives for purposes of Code Section 162(m) may
pay or cover in excess of 10 million shares of Common Stock or the cash value equivalent to that number of shares. The Common Stock may come from treasury shares, authorized but unissued shares, or previously issued shares that the Company
reacquires, including shares it purchases on the open market. If any Award expires, is canceled, or terminates for any other reason, the shares of Common Stock available under that Award will again be available for the granting of new
Awards.   

No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date precedes the date of exercise.   

The participant will have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the shares of stock subject to an Award except to the extent that the Company has issued certificates for, or otherwise
confirmed ownership of, such shares upon the exercise or, as applicable, the grant or nonforfeitability of an Award.   
       
   - 8 -   

The Company will not issue fractional shares pursuant to the exercise of an Award. Any fractional share will be rounded up and issued to the participant in a whole share.   

PERSON WHO MAY EXERCISE  
      
  During the participant s lifetime and except as provided under TRANSFERS, ASSIGNMENTS, AND PLEDGES, only the participant or his/her duly appointed guardian or personal representative may
exercise or hold an Award (other than nonforfeitable shares of Common Stock). After his/her death, his/her personal representative or any other person authorized under a will or under the laws of descent and distribution may exercise any then
exercisable portion of an Award or hold any then nonforfeitable portion of any Award. If someone other than the original recipient seeks to exercise or hold any portion of an Award, the Administrator may request such proof as it may consider
necessary or appropriate of the person s right to exercise or hold the Award.   

PERFORMANCE RULES  
      
  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority to establish and administer Performance Objectives with respect to such Awards as it considers appropriate, which
Performance Objectives must be satisfied, as the Committee specifies, before the participant receives or retains an Award or before the Award becomes nonforfeitable or exercisable.   

Performance Objectives will be based exclusively on one or more of the following financial measures determined based on the Company and its Subsidiaries on a group-wide basis or on the basis
of parent, Subsidiary, division, business platform, or operating unit results:   

earnings per share (on a fully diluted or other basis)    

pretax or after tax net income,    

operating income,    

gross revenue,    

profit margin,    

stock price targets or stock price maintenance,    

free cash flow,    

cash flow,    

return on equity,    

return on capital,    
       
   - 9 -   

earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA),    

strategic business criteria, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified revenue, market penetration,
geographic business expansion goals, cost targets, or objective goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures,         or any combination of these measures (in each case before or after such objective income and expense allocations or adjustments as the Committee may
specify within the Applicable Period).    

The Committee shall determine whether such Performance Objectives are attained, and such determination will be final and conclusive.   

Each Performance Objective may be expressed in absolute and/or relative terms, may be based on or use comparisons with current internal targets, the past performance of the Company (including
the performance of one or more Subsidiaries, divisions, business platforms, and/or operating units) and/or the past or current performance of other companies. In the case of earnings-based measures, Performance Objectives may use comparisons
relating to capital (including, but not limited to, the cost of capital), shareholders  equity and/or shares outstanding, or to assets or net assets.   

The provisions governing the grants of Options and SARs and the establishment of Performance Objectives for other Awards are intended to conform with all provisions of Code
Section 162(m) and Treas. Reg.   1.162-27 to the extent necessary to allow the Company a Federal income tax deduction for Awards as  qualified performance based compensation,  provided that Committee retains the discretion
whether to make Awards that do not so qualify. The Committee also retains the discretion to specify that it can adjust an Award payout downwards (to the extent permitted by the foregoing tax rules) under such factors as it considers appropriate.

The measures used in setting Performance Objectives under the Plan for any given performance period will, to the extent applicable, be determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles ( GAAP ) and in a manner consistent with the methods used in the Company s audited financial statements, without regard to (i) extraordinary or nonrecurring items in accordance with GAAP, (ii) changes
in accounting, or (iii) the effect of discontinued operations, unless, in each of clauses (i)-(iii), the Committee decides otherwise within the Applicable Period.   
       
   - 10 -   

The   Applicable Period   with respect to any performance period for an Award means a period beginning on or before the first day of the performance period and ending no later
than the earlier of (i) the 90th day of the performance period or (ii) the date on which 25% of the performance period has been completed.   

ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN CAPITAL STOCK  
      
  Subject to any required action by the Company (which it shall promptly take) or its stockholders, and subject to the provisions of applicable corporate law, if, after the Date of Grant of an
Award,   

the outstanding shares of Common Stock increase or decrease or change into or are exchanged for a different number or kind of security by reason of any
recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, combination of shares, exchange of shares, stock dividend, or other distribution payable in capital stock, or    

some other increase or decrease in such Common Stock occurs without the Company s receiving consideration,    

the Administrator will make a proportionate and appropriate adjustment in the number of shares of Common Stock underlying each Award, so that the proportionate interest of the participant
immediately following such event will, to the extent practicable, be the same as immediately before such event. Unless the Administrator determines another method would be appropriate, any such adjustment to an Option will not change the total price
with respect to shares of Common Stock underlying the unexercised portion of an Option or SAR but will include a corresponding proportionate adjustment in the Option s or SAR s Exercise Price.   

The Administrator will make a commensurate change to the maximum number and kind of shares provided in the STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN section.   

In the event of a declaration of an extraordinary dividend on the Common Stock payable in a form other than Common Stock in an amount that has a material effect on the price of the Common Stock,
the Administrator shall make such adjustments as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate in the outstanding Awards and the maximum number of shares provided in the Stock Subject to Plan section.   
       
   - 11 -   

Any issue by the Company of any class of preferred stock, or securities convertible into shares of common or preferred stock of any class, will not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof
will be made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to any Award or the Exercise Price except as this ADJUSTMENTS section specifically provides. The grant of an Award under the Plan will not affect in any way the right or
power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or to consolidate, or to dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or
assets.   

Substantial Corporate Change  
      
  Upon a Substantial Corporate Change, the Plan and any forfeitable portions of the Awards will terminate unless provision is made in writing in connection with such transaction for the assumption
or continuation of outstanding Awards, or the substitution for such Awards of any options or grants covering the stock or securities of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary of such successor, with appropriate adjustments as to
the number and kind of shares of stock and prices, in which event the Awards will continue in the manner and under the terms so provided.   

Unless the Board determines otherwise, if an Award would otherwise terminate pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Administrator will either   

provide optionees or holders of SARs will have the right, at such time before the consummation of the transaction causing such termination as the Board reasonably
designates, to exercise any unexercised portions of an Option or SAR, whether or not they had previously become exercisable, or    

for any Awards, cause the Company, or agree to allow the successor, to cancel each Award after payment to the participant of an amount in cash, cash equivalents,
or successor equity interests substantially equal to the Fair Market Value under the transaction (minus, for Options and SARs, the Exercise Price for the shares covered by the Option or SAR (and for any Awards, where the Board or the Administrator
determines it is appropriate, any required tax withholdings)).    
       
   - 12 -   

A Substantial Corporate Change means the   

dissolution or liquidation of the Company,    

merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the Company with one or more corporations in which the Company is not the surviving corporation,    

the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company to another corporation,    

or any transaction (including a merger or reorganization in which the Company survives) approved by the Board that results in any person or entity (other than any
affiliate of the Company as defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act) owning 100% of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company.    

SUBSIDIARY EMPLOYEES  
      
  Employees of Company Subsidiaries will be entitled to participate in the Plan, except as otherwise designated by the Board of Directors or the Administrator.   

Eligible Subsidiary    means each of the Company s Subsidiaries, except as the Board otherwise specifies.    Subsidiary    means any corporation,
limited liability company, partnership or other entity (   corporation   ) (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if, at the time an Award is granted to a Participant under the
Plan, each of the corporations (other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain) owns stock or other equity possessing 20% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or equity in one of the other corporations in such
chain.   

LEGAL COMPLIANCE  
      
  The Company will not issue any shares of Common Stock under an Award until all applicable requirements imposed by Federal and state securities and other laws, rules, and regulations, and by any
applicable regulatory agencies or stock exchanges, have been fully met. To that end, the Company may require the participant to take any reasonable action to comply with such requirements before issuing such shares. No provision in the Plan or
action taken under it authorizes any action that is otherwise prohibited by Federal or state laws, rules, or regulations, or by any applicable regulatory agencies or stock exchanges.   
       
   - 13 -   

The Plan is intended to conform to the extent necessary with all provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 (   Securities Act   ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(   Exchange Act   ) and all regulations and rules the Securities and Exchange Commission issues under those laws. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Administrator must administer the Plan, and Awards may
be granted and exercised, only in a way that conforms to such laws, rules, and regulations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan and any Awards will be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules, and
regulations.   

PURCHASE FOR INVESTMENT AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS  
      
  Unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the shares of Common Stock a participant receives under an Award, the Administrator may require, at the time of such grant and/or
exercise and/or lapse of restrictions, that the participant agree in writing to acquire such shares for investment and not for public resale or distribution, unless and until the shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act.
Unless the shares are registered under the Securities Act, the participant must acknowledge:   

that the shares received under the Award are not so registered,    

that the participant may not sell or otherwise transfer the shares unless the shares have been registered under the Securities Act in connection with the sale or
transfer thereof, or    

counsel satisfactory to the Company has issued an opinion satisfactory to the Company that the sale or other transfer of such shares is exempt from registration
under the Securities Act, and    

such sale or transfer complies with all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including all applicable Federal and state securities laws, rules, and
regulations.    

Additionally, the Common Stock, when issued under an Award, will be subject to any other transfer restrictions, rights of first refusal, and rights of repurchase set forth in or incorporated by
reference into other applicable documents, including the Company s articles or certificate of incorporation, by-laws, or generally applicable stockholders  agreements.   
       
   - 14 -   

The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, take whatever additional actions it deems appropriate to comply with such restrictions and applicable laws, including placing legends on
certificates and issuing stop-transfer orders to transfer agents and registrars.   

TAX WITHHOLDING  
      
  The participant must satisfy all applicable Federal, state, and local income and employment tax withholding requirements before the Company will deliver stock certificates or otherwise recognize
ownership or nonforfeitability under an Award. The Company may decide to satisfy the withholding obligations through additional withholding on salary or wages. If the Company does not or cannot withhold from other compensation, the participant must
pay the Company, with a cashier s check or certified check, the full amounts required for withholding. Payment of withholding obligations is due at the same time as is payment of the Exercise Price or lapse of restrictions, as applicable. If
the Administrator so determines, the participant may instead satisfy the withholding obligations (i) by directing the Company to retain shares from the Option exercise or release of the Award, (ii) by tendering previously owned shares, (iii) by
attesting to his ownership of shares (with the distribution of net shares), or (iv) by having a broker tender to the Company cash equal to the withholding taxes, subject, in each of the first three clauses, to a withholding of no more than the
minimum applicable tax withholding rate.   

TRANSFERS, ASSIGNMENTS OR PLEDGES  
      
  Unless the Administrator otherwise approves in advance in writing or as set forth below, an Award may not be assigned, pledged, or otherwise transferred in any way, whether by operation of law
or otherwise or through any legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), by the participant to any person, except by will or by operation of applicable laws of descent and distribution. If necessary to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the
Exchange Act, the participant may not transfer or pledge shares of Common Stock acquired under an Award until at least six months have elapsed from (but excluding) the Date of Grant, unless the Administrator approves otherwise in advance in writing.
The Administrator may, in its discretion, expressly provide that a participant may transfer his Award, without receiving consideration, to (i) members of the optionee s immediate family (children, grandchildren, or spouse), (ii) trusts for the
benefit of such family members, or (iii) partnerships whose only partners are such family members.   

AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN AND OPTIONS  
      
  The Board may amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time, without the consent of the participants or their beneficiaries; provided, however, that no amendment will deprive any participant
or beneficiary of any previously declared Award. Except as required by law or by the CORPORATE CHANGES section, the   
       
   - 15 -   

Administrator may not, without the participant s or beneficiary s consent, modify the terms and conditions of an Award so as to adversely affect the participant. No amendment,
suspension, or termination of the Plan will, without the participant s or beneficiary s consent, terminate or adversely affect any right or obligations under any outstanding Awards.   

PRIVILEGES OF STOCK OWNERSHIP  
      
  No participant and no beneficiary or other person claiming under or through such participant will have any right, title, or interest in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved
under the Plan or subject to any Award except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, that have been issued to such participant.   

EFFECT ON OUTSTANDING OPTIONS  
      
  All options outstanding under the 1987 Plan will remain subject to the terms of the 1987 Plan before its amendment into this Plan; provided, however, that limitations imposed on such options by
Rule 16b-3 will continue to apply only to the extent Rule 16b-3 so requires.   

EFFECT ON OTHER PLANS  
      
  Whether receiving or exercising an Award causes the participant to accrue or receive additional benefits under any pension or other plan is governed solely by the terms of such other
plan.   

LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY  
      
  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, no individual acting as a director, employee, or agent of the Company shall be liable to any participant, former participant, spouse,
beneficiary, or any other person for any claim, loss, liability, or expense incurred in connection with the Plan, nor shall such individual be personally liable because of any contract or other instrument he executes in such other capacity. The
Company will indemnify and hold harmless each director, employee, or agent of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan has been or will be delegated, against any cost or expense (including
attorneys  fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the Board s approval) arising out of any act or omission to act concerning this Plan unless arising out of such person s own fraud or bad
faith.   

NO EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT  
      
  Nothing contained in this Plan constitutes an employment contract between the Company and the participants. The Plan does not give the participants any right to be retained in the Company s
employ, nor does it enlarge or diminish the Company s right to terminate the participant s employment.   

APPLICABLE LAW  
      
  The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) govern this Plan and its interpretation.   
       
   - 16 -   

DURATION OF PLAN  
      
  Unless the Board extends the Plan s term, the Administrator may not grant Awards after May 4, 2008. The Plan will then terminate but will continue to govern unexercised and unexpired
Awards.   

CODE SECTION 409A REQUIREMENTS  
      
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or any Award agreement, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to a participant under
this Plan and any Award. For purposes of Code Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Code Section 409A) made under this Plan or an Award shall be considered a  separate payment.  In addition, for purposes of Code Section
409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the definition of deferred compensation under Code Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (i) the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and (ii)
(with respect to amounts paid as separation pay no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing the participant s  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A)) the  two
years/two-times  separation pay exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated by reference.   

If the participant is a  specified employee  as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his separation from
service, to the extent any payment under this Plan or an Award constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Code Section 409A), and to the extent required by Code Section 409A, no payments due under
this Plan or an Award may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the participant s separation from service, or (ii) the participant s date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed
during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following the participant s separation from service. If this Plan or any Award fails to meet the requirements of
Code Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the participant by Code Section 409A, and the participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its
affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.   
       
   - 17 -   

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.13>
 9
 dex1013.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.13

Exhibit 10.13 

Exhibit 10.13        AMENDED AND RESTATED DANAHER CORPORATION   SUBSIDIARIES        EXECUTIVE DEFERRED INCENTIVE
PROGRAM        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008    

DANAHER CORPORATION   SUBSIDIARIES        EXECUTIVE DEFERRED INCENTIVE PROGRAM       WHEREAS, the Plan Sponsor established
this Plan, effective as of March 1, 1995, to further the long-term growth of the Plan Sponsor and its subsidiary Employers by offering deferred compensation in addition to current compensation to a select group of management and highly
compensated employees of the Plan Sponsor and its subsidiary Employers who are involved in such growth; and      WHEREAS, under
Section 7.1 of this Plan, the Plan Sponsor has reserved unto itself the right to amend this Plan; and      WHEREAS, the Plan Sponsor
previously amended this Plan effective January 1, 1997; and      WHEREAS, the Plan Sponsor previously amended and restated this Plan,
generally effective as of August 1, 2003, by modifying the Plan s design to provide a more competitive retirement benefit for the select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Plan Sponsor and its subsidiary Employers;
and      WHEREAS, the Plan Sponsor again amended and restated this Plan, generally effective as of May 15, 2007, except as otherwise
provided, by (i) increasing the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance hereunder from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 to adjust for the effect of the two-for-one split of the Common Stock in May 2004, and (ii) incorporating
appropriate anti-dilution provisions to ensure that going forward, the amount of shares of Common Stock available for issuance hereunder is not proportionately reduced as a result of stock splits or other adjustments to the Plan Sponsor s
capital stock; and      WHEREAS, the Plan Sponsor now desires to amend and restate this Plan, generally effective as of January 1, 2008,
except as otherwise provided herein, to comply with Code Section 409A and all formal regulations, rulings, and guidance issued thereunder.      NOW, THEREFORE, in order to accomplish such purpose, the Plan Sponsor has adopted, by appropriate resolutions, this amended and restated Plan effective as of January 1, 2008. It is intended that this Plan, together with the Trust
Agreement, shall be unfunded for purposes of the Code and shall constitute an unfunded pension plan maintained for a select group of management and highly compensated employees for purposes of Title I of ERISA.   

ARTICLE I       DEFINITIONS       As used in this Plan, each of the following terms shall have the respective meaning set
forth below unless a different meaning is plainly required by the content.      1.1  Administrator . The individual or committee appointed
by the Plan Sponsor to administer the Plan pursuant to Article V.      1.2  Applicable Percentage . With respect to a Participant for a
Performance Cycle, the applicable percentage determined from the table in Appendix A depending on (a) the Participant s Target Compensation for the Performance Cycle and (b) the Participant s exact age on the Cycle Beginning Date
or, if later, the Participant s Participation Date. Effective January 1, 2004, with respect to a Participant for a Performance Cycle beginning on or after January 1, 2004, the applicable percentage determined from the table in
Appendix A depending on the Participant s Years of Participation as of the Cycle Beginning Date.      1.3  Beneficiary . An
individual or entity entitled to receive any benefits under this Plan that are payable upon a Participant s death.      1.4  Benefit
Account . With respect to a Participant, the account maintained on behalf of the Participant to record any Benefit Amounts and Performance Shares credited thereto or forfeited therefrom, any earnings credited thereto and any losses debited
therefrom in accordance with the terms of this Plan.      1.5  Benefit Amount . With respect to a Participant for a Performance Cycle, the
Performance Shares credited pursuant to Section 3.4 and any dollar amounts calculated and credited pursuant to Section 3.4.      1.6
 Bonus . With respect to a Participant for a Plan Year, the amount (if any) of the Participant s Target Bonus for the Plan Year that shall be determined to have been earned by the Participant in accordance with the Plan Sponsor s
bonus program, excluding any amount thereof that shall be contributed on the Participant s behalf as a Salary Deferral Contribution to the 401(k) Plan.      1.7  Bonus Deferral Amount . With respect to a Participant for a Plan Year, an amount of the Participant s Target Bonus or Bonus for the last preceding Plan Year that the Participant has elected to defer
pursuant to Section 3.3.      1.8  Code . The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time.      1.9  Common Stock . The common stock of the Plan Sponsor.         
   2   

1.10  Common Stock Price . With respect to a specified date as of which the price of shares of
Common Stock shall be determined, the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange of one (1) share of Common Stock on the business day last preceding the specified date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to the calculation of any
Option Gain with respect to any Options exercised by a Participant and the crediting of any Gain Shares to a Participant s Option Shares Account, the Common Stock Price determined as of any time shall be the most recent closing price on the New
York Stock Exchange of one (1) share of Common Stock. Solely for purposes of documenting administrative practice under the terms of the Plan, in determining the Common Stock Price under this Section 1.10 of the Plan, the terms
 closing price on the New York Stock Exchange  and  most recent closing price on the New York Stock Exchange  shall not be construed to mean the adjusted closing price on the New York Stock Exchange.      1.11  Cycle Beginning Date . With respect to a Performance Cycle, the first (1st) day of the Performance Cycle.      1.12  Cycle Ending Date . With respect to a Performance Cycle, the last day of the Performance Cycle or, if earlier, the date during the Performance
Cycle as of which this Plan shall terminate.      1.13  Deferral Account . With respect to a Participant, the account (if any) maintained
on behalf of the Participant to record the Salary Deferral Amounts (if any) and Bonus Deferral Amounts (if any) that have been credited on the Participant s behalf and any earnings credited thereto in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
     1.14    Distributable Amount   . With respect to any specified date coincident with or subsequent to the Eligibility
Termination Date of a Participant or a deceased Participant, the balance (if any) as of the specified date in the Participant s Distribution Account (subsequent to any crediting thereof pursuant to Section 3.6 as of such Eligibility
Termination Date).      1.15  Distribution Account . With respect to a Participant, the account (if any) maintained on behalf of the
Participant to record the amounts to be distributed to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries and any earnings credited thereto in accordance with the terms of this Plan.      1.16  Distribution Date . With respect to a Participant or a deceased Participant whose Employment Termination Date has occurred, the date as of
which the Distributable Amount and the Participant s Option Shares Account shall be paid to the Participant or the deceased Participant s Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, as applicable, or the date as of which the first (1st) installment
of the Distributable Amount and the Participant s Option Shares Account shall be paid to the Participant.      1.17  Dividend Share .
One (1) Notional Share credited to a Participant s Option Shares Account pursuant to Section 3.2.      1.18  ERISA . The
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as it may be amended from time to time.      1.19  Earnings Credit . With respect to a
Participant, a nominal amount determined pursuant to Sections 3.3(f), 3.4(d), 3.5(b), and 3.6(b) of this Plan for crediting to or deducting from the Participant s Deferral Account, Benefit Account, Rollover Account, and Distribution Account
pursuant to Sections 3.3(f), 3.4(d), 3.5(b), and 3.6(b) respectively, of this Plan; provided, however,  
       
   3   

that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Sponsor acknowledges that increases and decreases in the value of the Notional Shares and other amounts
credited to any of the aforementioned Accounts that are invested in the Common Stock investment option shall arise from increases and decreases in the value of Common Stock rather than from the crediting of earnings.      1.20  Earnings Crediting Rate . With respect to a Participant, the rate at which nominal earnings shall be credited to, or nominal losses shall be
deducted from, all or a designated portion of the Participant s Deferral Account, Benefit Account, Rollover Account and Distribution Account, as determined pursuant to Sections 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, and 3.6 respectively, of this Plan; provided,
however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Sponsor acknowledges that increases and decreases in the value of the Notional Shares and other amounts credited to any of the aforementioned Accounts that are invested in the Common Stock
investment option shall arise from increases and decreases in the value of Common Stock rather than from the crediting of earnings.      1.21
 Effective Date . January 1, 2008, except as otherwise provided. The original effective date of this Plan is March 1, 1995.      1.22  Eligible Compensation .      (a)  Cycle Beginning Date Prior to January 1, 2004 . With respect to
a Participant for a Performance Cycle beginning prior to January 1, 2004:      (i)  Eligible Employee on Cycle Beginning
Date . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs on or before the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle and the Participant is an Eligible Employee on such Cycle Beginning Date, the product (rounded to two (2) decimal
places) of (i) the Applicable Percentage, (ii) PV Factor 1+2+3, and (iii) the Participant's Target Compensation.      (ii)  Eligible Employee After Cycle Beginning Date . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle but during the Performance Cycle, the product (rounded to two
(2) decimal places) of the Applicable Percentage and the amount determined in accordance with Paragraphs (i) through (iii) below, as applicable, depending on the Plan Year in the Performance Cycle during which the Participant s
Participation Date occurs:      (A)  First Plan Year . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs during the
first (1st) Plan Year in the Performance Cycle, such amount shall equal the sum of (A) the product of (I) PV Factor 0 based on the Months Factor, (II) the Participant s Target Compensation, (III) the Months Factor, and (IV)
one-twelfth (1/12) and (B) the product of (I) PV Factor 1+2 and (II) the Participant s Target Compensation.      (B)  Second Plan Year . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs during the second (2nd) Plan Year in the Performance Cycle, such amount shall equal the sum of (A) the product of (I) PV Factor 0 based on the
Months Factor, (II) the Participant s Target Compensation, (III) the Months Factor, and (IV) one-twelfth (1/12) and (B) the product of (I) PV Factor 1 and (II) the Participant s Target Compensation.         
   4   

(C)  Third Plan Year . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs during
the third (3rd) Plan Year in the Performance Cycle, such amount shall equal the product of (A) PV Factor 0 based on the Months Factor, (B) the Participant s Target Compensation, (C) the Months Factor, and
(D) one-twelfth (1/12).      (b)  Cycle Beginning Date on or After January 1, 2004 . With respect to a
Participant for a Performance Cycle beginning on or after January 1, 2004:      (i)  Eligible Employee on Cycle Beginning
Date . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs on or before the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle and the Participant is an Eligible Employee on such Cycle Beginning Date, the product (rounded to two (2) decimal
places) of (I) the Applicable Percentage and (II) the Participant s Target Compensation.      (ii)  Eligible
Employee After Cycle Beginning Date . If the Participant s Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date but during the Performance Cycle, the product (rounded to two (2) decimal places) of (I) the Applicable Percentage,
(II) the Participant s Target Compensation, and (III) the Months Factor for the month in which the Participant s Participation Date occurs.      1.23  Eligible Employee . (a) An Employee who was hired on or before January 1, 1995, and who is an Initial Participant, (b) an Employee who was hired after January 1, 1995, and whose
employment position is listed in the records prepared and maintained by the Administrator, or (c) effective on and after January 1, 1998, an Employee who is a Rollover Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the Administrator,
in his or her sole discretion, may determine that an Employee who was hired on or before January 1, 1995, and who is not an Initial Participant shall become an Eligible Employee under such circumstances as the Administrator, in his or her sole
discretion, may deem appropriate so long as the Employee has an employment position that is listed in the records prepared and maintained by the Administrator.      1.24  Eligibility Termination Date . With respect to a Participant who is an Eligible Employee, the earliest of (a) the Participant s Employment Termination Date, or (b) the date that the
Participant is no longer an Eligible Employee as defined in Section 1.23(b).      1.25  Employee . An individual who performs
services for an Employer.      1.26  Employer . (a) The Plan Sponsor or (b) an employer that is a member of the Plan
Sponsor s  controlled group of corporations, trades, or businesses,  as such term shall be defined in Code Sections 414(b) and 414(c), and that has adopted this Plan by executing an adoption agreement with the Plan Sponsor, the terms
of which shall thereupon be incorporated by reference as a part of the Plan.      1.27  Employment Termination Date . With respect to a
Participant, the earlier of the date that the Participant ceases being an Employee or the date as of which this Plan is terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Section 409A Amount of a Participant, the Participant s
 Employment Termination Date  shall be the date that the Participant separates from service with all Employers, whether by death, retirement, or other termination of employment, in a manner consistent with the definition in Treas. Reg.
Section 1.409A-1(h).         
   5   

1.28  Gain Share . One (1) Notional Share credited to a Participant s Option Shares
Account pursuant to Section 3.2(d).      1.29  Grandfathered Amount . With respect to a Participant, any portion of the following
account balances that was vested as of December 31, 2004: the Performance Shares Account, the Benefit Account, the Option Shares Account, the Deferral Account, the Rollover Account, and the Distribution Account; and any earnings credited
thereto and any losses deducted therefrom on or after January 1, 2005, in accordance with the terms of the Plan.      1.30
 Identification Date. December 31, 2007, and December 31 of each calendar year thereafter .      1.31  Initial
Participant . An Employee who became a Participant as of March 1, 1995, and is designated as an initial participant in the records prepared and maintained by the Administrator.      1.32  Long-term Rate . With respect to a Performance Cycle, the closing price of the ten (10)-year Treasury bond rate on the business day last
preceding the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle or such other long-term interest rate as shall be determined for the remainder of the Performance Cycle by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.      1.33  Months Factor . With respect to a Performance Cycle and a Participant whose Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date of the
Performance Cycle but during the Performance Cycle, the number of months between the Participant s Participation Date and the last day of the Plan Year during such Performance Cycle in which his or her Participation Date occurred as provided in
Appendix B.      1.34  Notional Share . One (1) notional share equivalent in value to one (1) share of Common Stock.   
  1.35  Option . With respect to a Participant, a nonqualified stock option in which the Participant is vested under any stock option plan
maintained by the Plan Sponsor.      1.36  Option Exercise Date . With respect to Options held by a Participant, the date (if any) as of
which the Participant exercises the Options.      1.37  Option Gain . With respect to the Options exercised by a Participant as of an
Option Exercise Date, the product of (a) the number of Options exercised and (b) the difference between (i) the Common Stock Price on the Option Exercise Date and (ii) the exercise price per share of Common Stock.      1.38  Option Shares Account . With respect to a Participant, the account (if any) maintained on behalf of the Participant to record any Gain Shares
and any Dividend Shares that have been credited on his or her behalf under this Plan.      1.39  PV Factor 0 . With respect to a
Performance Cycle with a Cycle Beginning Date before January 1, 2004, and a Participant whose Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle but during the Performance Cycle, a present value factor applicable

6   

in determining the Participant s Eligible Compensation for the Performance Cycle, which shall be (a) the factor provided in Appendix B based on the
applicable Months Factor and an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per annum, compounded annually, or (b) such other factor as shall be similarly calculated as shall be determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.
     1.40  PV Factor 1 . With respect to a Performance Cycle with a Cycle Beginning Date before January 1, 2004, and a Participant
whose Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle but during the second (2nd) Plan Year during the Performance Cycle, a present value factor applicable in determining the Participant s Eligible
Compensation for the Performance Cycle, which shall be (a) the factor provided in Appendix B based on an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per annum, compounded annually, or (b) such other factor as shall be similarly calculated as
shall be determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.      1.41  PV Factor 1+2 . With respect to a Performance Cycle
with a Cycle Beginning Date before January 1, 2004, and a Participant whose Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle but during the first (1st) Plan Year during the Performance Cycle, a present
value factor applicable in determining the Participant s Eligible Compensation for the Performance Cycle, which shall be (a) the factor provided in Appendix B based on an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per annum, compounded
annually, or (b) such other factor as shall be similarly calculated as shall be determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.      1.42  PV Factor 1+2+3 . With respect to a Performance Cycle with a Cycle Beginning Date before January 1, 2004, and a Participant whose Participation Date occurs on or before the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle, a
present value factor applicable in determining the Participant s Eligible Compensation for the Performance Cycle, which shall be (a) the factor provided in Appendix B based on an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per annum,
compounded annually, or (b) such other factor as shall be similarly calculated as shall be determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.      1.43  Participant . An Eligible Employee or former Eligible Employee who is participating in this Plan pursuant to Article II.      1.44  Participation Date . With respect to an Eligible Employee, the date (if any) as of which the Eligible Employee shall become a Participant as determined pursuant to Section 2.1.      1.45  Payroll Period . With respect to an Eligible Employee, a period with respect to which the Eligible Employee receives a pay check or otherwise
is paid for services that he or she performs during the period for an Employer.      1.46  Pension Plan . Danaher Corporation  
Subsidiaries Pension Plan or any successor plan thereto, as it may be amended from time to time.      1.47  Performance Cycle . The three
(3) consecutive Plan Years beginning on March 1, 1995 or any successive period of three (3) consecutive Plan Years. Effective January 1, 2004, a period of one (1) Plan Year.      1.48  Performance Share . One (1) Notional Share.         
   7   

1.49  Performance Shares Account . With respect to a Participant, the account maintained on behalf
of the Participant to record the Performance Shares (if any) that have been credited on the Participant s behalf for a Performance Cycle.      1.50  Plan . Danaher Corporation   Subsidiaries Executive Deferred Incentive Program, as it is set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time.      1.51  Plan Sponsor . Danaher Corporation.      1.52  Plan Year . The period beginning on March 1, 1995 and ending on December 31, 1995, or a calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 1996.      1.53  Rollover Account . With respect to a Rollover Participant, the account (if any) maintained on behalf of the Rollover Participant to record the
Rollover Amount (if any) that has been credited on the Rollover Participant s behalf and any earnings credited thereto in accordance with the terms of this Plan.      1.54  Rollover Amount . With respect to a Rollover Participant, the nonforfeitable dollar amount as of a specified date that the Administrator has permitted to be credited under this Plan pursuant to
Section 3.5 of this Plan.      1.55  Rollover Participant . An Employee who elects to transfer to this Plan a nonforfeitable dollar
amount previously granted to the Employee under another arrangement maintained by an employer as permitted by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.      1.56  Salary . With respect to a Participant for a Payroll Period, the total cash compensation (if any) that is payable to the Participant by any Employer during the Payroll Period and that would be reportable on
the Participant s federal income tax withholding statement (Form W-2), including, but not limited to, salary and overtime pay, but excluding any Bonus that is payable to the Participant during the Payroll Period and any amount of such cash
compensation that shall be contributed on the Participant s behalf as a Salary Deferral Contribution to the 401(k) Plan, plus remuneration as defined in Code Section 3401(a)(8)(A) to the extent not otherwise reported on the
Participant s Form W-2 (excluding housing, COLA, tax equalization, hardship and special allowances). Solely for purposes of documenting administrative practice under the terms of the Plan, under this Section 1.56 of the Plan, any hiring
bonus paid to a Participant for a Payroll Period may be considered to be part of the Salary that is payable to the Participant by any Employer for the Payroll Period.      1.57  Salary Deferral Amount . With respect to a Participant for a Plan Year, an amount of the Participant s Salary for a Payroll Period during the Plan Year that the Participant has elected to defer
pursuant to Section 3.3.      1.58    Salary Deferral Contribution   . The term  Salary Deferral Contribution 
shall be defined in this Plan as it shall be defined in the 401(k) Plan.      1.59  Section 409A Amount . With respect to a
Participant, any of the following amounts: (1) the portion of the Participant s Benefit Account that is unvested as of December 31, 2004 (if any), determined as the product of (I) the balance in the Participant s Benefit
Account as of  
       
   8   

December 31, 2004 and (II) the difference between one hundred percent (100%) and the applicable Vesting Percentage attributable to the
Participant s Benefit Amounts as of December 31, 2004, determined in accordance with Section 3.4(e)(iii) of the Plan, and any earnings credited thereto and any losses deducted therefrom on or after January 1, 2005 in accordance
with the terms of the Plan; and (2) any and all Benefit Amounts, Bonus Deferral Amounts, Salary Deferral Amounts, Performance Shares, and Rollover Amounts that in accordance with the terms of the Plan are credited on the Participant s
behalf on and after January 1, 2005, and any earnings credited thereto and any losses deducted therefrom in accordance with the terms of the Plan (as well as any Distribution Amounts attributable to the amounts described in this subsection
(2)). Any Rollover Amount credited on behalf of a Rollover Participant on or after January 1, 2005 shall be not deemed to be a Section 409A Amount to the extent expressly provided in connection with any merger or consolidation of a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan (as defined in Code Section 409A) with and into this Plan.      1.60  Specified Employee . An
Employee who is a  key employee  as such term is defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to Code Section 416(i)(5). For purposes of determining which Employees are key employees, an Employee is a key employee if the
Employee meets the requirements of Code Section 416(i)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on an
Identification Date; provided, however, that all Employees who are nonresident aliens during the entire 12-month period ending with the relevant Identification Date shall be excluded in any such determination.      1.61  Target Bonus . With respect to a Participant for a Plan Year, the target bonus (if any) that may be earned by the Participant for the Plan
Year as determined in accordance with the Plan Sponsor s bonus program applicable to such Participant as from time to time in effect.      1.62  Target Compensation . With respect to a Participant for a Performance Cycle, the sum of (a) the Participant s annual base salary for the first (1st) Plan Year in the Performance Cycle or, if later, the Plan Year in
the Performance Cycle during which the Participant s Participation Date occurs and (b) the Participant s Target Bonus for the same such Plan Year. Effective January 1, 2004, with respect to a Participant for a Performance Cycle,
the sum of (a) the Participant s annual base salary for the Performance Cycle and (b) the Participant s Target Bonus for the same such Performance Cycle.      1.63  Trust Agreement . Trust Agreement for the Danaher Corporation   Subsidiaries Executive Deferred Incentive Program, as it may be
amended from time to time.      1.64  Valuation Date . The monthly or other more frequent periodic date selected by the Administrator to
value Benefit Accounts, Deferral Accounts, Rollover Accounts, and Distribution Accounts; provided, however, that the first Valuation Date shall be August 1, 2003. With respect to a Participant whose Eligibility Termination Date does not
coincide with a Valuation Date defined in the preceding sentence, the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date shall be deemed a Valuation Date solely with respect to that Participant.      1.65  Valuation Period . A period beginning on a Valuation Date and ending on the day before the next succeeding Valuation Date.         
   9   

1.66  Vesting Percentage . With respect to a Benefit Amount and Performance Shares credited to a
Participant s Benefit Account, the percentage to be applied to such Benefit Amount and Performance Shares to determine the amount thereof to which the Participant shall have a nonforfeitable right, subject to any provision to the contrary in
Section 3.4 or 5.9 or the Trust Agreement.      1.67  Vesting Year of Participation . Effective January 1, 2004, with respect to
a Participant other than a Rollover Participant, a twelve (12)-consecutive month period beginning on (A) the later of (i) January 1, 2004 or (ii) the Participant s Participation Date, or (B) an anniversary thereof
during which the Participant remains an Eligible Employee, where the term  Eligible Employee  shall be defined only as in Sections 1.23(a) and (b) of this Plan; provided, however, that, in the case of a Participant who shall be absent
from employment with an Employer for any reason for more than six (6) consecutive weeks, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion, the Participant shall not be deemed to have remained an Eligible Employee
for purposes of this Section and the date as of which any future Years of Participation shall be determined for the Participant shall begin on the date of his or her return (if any) from such absence.      1.68  Year of Participation . With respect to a Participant other than a Rollover Participant, (i) the ten (10)-consecutive month period
beginning on March 1, 1995, and (ii) a twelve (12)-consecutive month period beginning on (A) the Participant s Participation Date, or (B) an anniversary thereof during which the Participant remains an Eligible Employee,
where the term  Eligible Employee  shall be defined only as in Sections 1.23(a) and (b) of this Plan; provided, however, that, in the case of a Participant who shall be absent from employment with an Employer for any reason for more
than six (6) consecutive weeks, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion, the Participant shall not be deemed to have remained an Eligible Employee for purposes of this Section and the date as of which any
future Years of Participation shall be determined for the Participant shall begin on the date of his or her return (if any) from such absence.      1.69  Year of Service . With respect to a Participant, a twelve (12)-consecutive month period beginning on the Participant s employment date with an Employer or an anniversary thereof during which the Participant remains an
Employee; provided, however, that, in the case of a Participant who shall be absent from employment with an Employer for any reason for more than six (6) consecutive weeks, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in his or her sole
discretion, the Participant shall not be deemed to have remained an Employee for purposes of this Section and the date as of which any future Years of Service shall be determined for the Participant shall begin on the date of his or her return (if
any) from such absence.      1.70  401(k) Plan . Danaher Corporation   Subsidiaries Savings Plan or any successor thereto, as it
may be amended from time to time.         
   10   

ARTICLE II       PARTICIPATION       2.1  Commencement of Participation . An Eligible Employee who is an Initial
Participant may become a Participant as of March 1, 1995, and any other Eligible Employee may become a Participant as of the date that is the first (1st) day of a month and that coincides with or follows the later of March 1, 1995, or
the date that the individual became an Eligible Employee; provided that the Eligible Employee completes an enrollment form and files it with the Administrator within the time period specified by the Administrator.      2.2  Termination of Participation .      (a)  Participant Ceases Being an Eligible Employee . A Participant who ceases being an Eligible Employee but remains an Employee shall cease being a Participant as of his or her Eligibility Termination Date if
the Participant s Distributable Amount as of such date (as determined subsequent to any crediting of his or her Distribution Account pursuant to Section 3.6 as of such date) equals zero (0) and his or her Option Shares Account (if
any) has a zero (0) balance.      (b)  Participant Ceases Being an Employee . A Participant who ceases being an
Employee shall cease being a Participant as of the earlier of the Participant s date of death or the date as of which the Participant s Distributable Amount (as determined subsequent to any crediting of his or her Distribution Account
pursuant to Section 3.6 as of his or her Eligibility Termination Date) equals zero (0) and his or her Option Shares Account (if any) has a zero (0) balance.       
  
   11   

ARTICLE III       ACCOUNTS AND VESTING       3.1  Performance Share Accounts .      (a)  Award of Performance Shares . With respect to each Performance Cycle, the Administrator shall credit Participants 
Performance Shares Accounts with Performance Shares in accordance with the following:      (i)  Eligible Employee on Cycle
Beginning Date . With respect to each Participant whose Participation Date occurred on or before the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle, if the Participant shall be an Eligible Employee on the Cycle Beginning Date, the Administrator
shall credit the Participant s Performance Shares Account as of the Cycle Beginning Date (but subsequent to any zeroing of such account pursuant to Section 3.4) with a number of Performance Shares equal to the quotient (rounded to the
nearer whole number) of (A) the Participant s Eligible Compensation and (B) the Common Stock Price as of the Cycle Beginning Date.      (ii)  Eligible Employee After Cycle Beginning Date . With respect to each Participant whose Participation Date occurs after the Cycle Beginning Date of the Performance Cycle but during the Performance Cycle, the
Administrator shall credit the Participant s Performance Shares Account as of his or her Participation Date with a number of Performance Shares equal to the quotient (rounded to the nearer whole number) of (A) the Participant s
Eligible Compensation and (B) the Common Stock Price as of the Participant s Participation Date.      (b)
 Limitations With Respect To Performance Shares .      (i)  No Shareholder Rights . A Performance Share has no legal
relation to a share of Common Stock and, accordingly, no Participant who has a balance in his or her Performance Shares Account shall be entitled to any dividend, voting, or other rights of a shareholder of Common Stock with respect to the
Performance Shares in his or her Performance Shares Account.      (ii)  No Right to Payment . No payment shall be made for
any one (1) or more of the Performance Shares in a Participant s Performance Shares Account except as provided in Section 4.2.      (iii)  Cancellation of Performance Shares . The Administrator may cancel all or any number of the Performance Shares in a Participant s Performance Shares Account with the written consent of the Participant.
        
   12   

3.2  Option Share Accounts . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no elections to defer
Option Gains are permitted under the terms of this Plan on or after January 1, 2005, and the provisions of this Plan relating to Option Gains shall only apply with respect to elections to defer Option Gains made prior to January 1, 2005.
     (a)  Exercise of Options . With respect to any Option Gain deferred under this Plan, it is the Plan Sponsor s
intent that: (i) the Participant first exercise the associated Options in a stock-for-stock exercise under the terms of the applicable stock option plan maintained by the Plan Sponsor; (ii) the shares to be returned to the Participant in
connection with the stock-for-stock exercise of the Options under the stock option plan shall be issued from the shares of Common Stock available under such stock option plan and shall be equal in number to the shares initially tendered by the
Participant in connection with the Option exercise; (iii) with respect to the aggregate market value of the Option Gain, (A) the value of such Option Gain shall be credited to the Participant s Option Shares Account under this Plan,
(B) the stock option plan shall not issue any shares of Common Stock thereunder with respect to such Option Gain, and (C) this Plan shall issue any such shares of Common Stock with respect to the Option Gain from the shares of Common Stock
available for issuance under this Plan in accordance with the terms of this Plan.      (b)  Election to Defer . Subject to
this Section, a Participant who is an Eligible Employee (i) may elect prior to the last day of a Plan Year to defer any Option Gain realized as a result of any exercise by the Participant of any Options during the last six (6) months of
the next succeeding Plan Year, or (ii) may elect prior to the last day of the sixth (6th) month of a Plan Year to defer any Option Gain realized as a result of any exercise by the Participant of any Options during the first six
(6) months of the next succeeding Plan Year.      (c)  Election Procedures . Subject to any further procedures
established by the Administrator pursuant to Article V, a Participant shall make any deferral election that he or she desires to make pursuant to Subsection (b) above by properly completing an election form and filing the form with the
Administrator. A Participant may not, at any time, revoke a deferral election made pursuant to this Section.      (d)
 Crediting of Gain Shares . Subject to Subsection (e) below, with respect to each Participant who exercises Options subject to a deferral election made pursuant to Subsection (b) above, if the Participant shall be an Eligible Employee
on the respective Option Exercise Date, as soon as administratively possible after the Administrator shall have received notice that the Options have been exercised, the Administrator shall credit the Participant s Option Shares Account with a
number of Gain Shares equal to the quotient (rounded to the nearer hundredth) of (i) the Participant s Option Gain from the exercise of the Options and (ii) the Common Stock Price as of the Option Exercise Date.      (e)  No Crediting of Gain Shares . Notwithstanding Subsection (d) above, Gain Shares shall be credited to a Participant s
Option Shares Account with respect to the Participant s exercise of Options subject to a deferral election made pursuant to Subsection (b) above only in the event that: (i) the Participant shall have delivered pursuant to the
applicable stock option plan maintained by the Plan Sponsor shares of Common Stock that the Participant has held for at least six (6) months with an aggregate value equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Options exercised (or proof that
the Participant owns such shares); (ii) the Participant shall deliver to the Administrator a check for any federal employment taxes applicable to the deferral of the Option Gain on the exercise of the Options; (iii) the Participant shall
have exercised at least 1,000 Options; (iv) the Participant has not already exercised any Options in the same calendar month; and (v) the Option Gain is at least $25,000.         
   13   

(f)  Crediting of Dividend Shares . With respect to each Participant who has an
Option Shares Account, as soon as administratively possible after any dividend payment date with respect to the Common Stock, the Administrator shall credit the Participant's Option Shares Account with a number of Dividend Shares equal to the
quotient (rounded to the nearer hundredth) of (i) the product of (A) the dividend amount per share of Common Stock and (B) the number of Option Shares credited to his or her Option Shares Account and (ii) the Common Stock Price
as of the dividend payment date.      (g)  Limitations With Respect to Option Shares .      (i)  No Shareholder Rights . No Option Share shall have any legal relation to a share of Common Stock and, accordingly, no
Participant who has a balance in his or her Option Shares Account shall be entitled to any dividend, voting, or other rights of a shareholder of Common Stock with respect to the Option Shares in his or her Option Shares Account except as otherwise
provided in Subsection (f) above.      (ii)  No Right to Payment . No payment shall be made for any of the Option
Shares in a Participant s Option Shares Account except as provided in Section 4.3.      3.3  Deferral Accounts .      (a)  Election to Defer . Subject to this Section:      (i)  Bonus Deferral Amounts . A Participant who is an Eligible Employee may elect to have an amount of his or her Target Bonus for a
Plan Year, a percentage of his or her Bonus for a Plan Year, or any amount of his or her Bonus as exceeds a specified amount deferred as a Bonus Deferral Amount for the next succeeding Plan Year; provided that the actual amount deferred shall not
exceed the Participant s Bonus.      (ii)  Salary Deferral Amounts . A Participant who is an Eligible Employee may
elect to have an amount of his or her Salary for each Payroll Period in a Plan Year during which he or she shall be an Eligible Employee deferred as a Salary Deferral Amount.      (b)  Election Procedures . Subject to any further procedures established by the Administrator pursuant to Article V, any election
made by a Participant pursuant to Subsection (a) above shall be subject to the procedures described in Paragraphs (i) through (iv) below:      (i)  Initial Opportunity to Defer .      (A)  Bonus Deferral Amounts . The
Participant may elect to have a Bonus Deferral Amount deferred on his or her behalf with respect to the Participant s Target Bonus or Bonus for the Plan Year in which the Participant s Participation Date occurs by so indicating on the
enrollment form required pursuant to Section 2.1.      (B)  Salary Deferral Amounts . The Participant may elect to
have Salary Deferral Amounts deferred on his or her behalf with respect to the Participant s Salary for the Plan Year in which the Participant's Participation Date occurs by so indicating on the enrollment form required pursuant to
Section 2.1. Such election shall be effective for Payroll Periods during  
       
   14   

such Plan Year or the remainder of such Plan Year, as applicable, beginning as soon as administratively possible on or after the latest of
(I) April 1, 1995, (II) the Participant s Participation Date, or (III) the date that the Participant files the properly completed enrollment form with the Administrator.      (ii)  Subsequent Opportunities to Defer .      (A)  Bonus Deferral Amounts . The Participant may elect to have a Bonus Deferral Amount deferred on his or her behalf with respect
to the Participant s Target Bonus or Bonus for a Plan Year subsequent to the Plan Year in which the Participant s Participation Date occurs by properly completing an election form and filing the form with the Administrator prior to the
first (1st) day of such subsequent Plan Year.      (B)  Salary Deferral Amounts . The Participant may elect to have
Salary Deferral Amounts deferred on his or her behalf with respect to the Participant s Salary for a Plan Year subsequent to the Plan Year in which the Participant s Participation Date occurs by properly completing an election form and
filing the form with the Administrator prior to the first (1st) day of such subsequent Plan Year. Such election shall be effective for Payroll Periods during the respective Plan Year beginning as soon as administratively possible on or after
the first (1st) day of the Plan Year.      (iii)  No Revocations . A Participant may not, at any time, revoke a
previous election with respect to a Bonus Deferral Amount or Salary Deferral Amounts.      (iv)      Termination of
Election     . A Participant s election concerning a Bonus Deferral Amount or Salary Deferral Amounts shall terminate on the earlier of (A) the date as of which the last amount or the only amount, as applicable, designated to
be withheld under such election shall be withheld or (B) the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date.      (c)
 Withholding by Employer .      (i)  Bonus Deferral Amounts . The Employer of a Participant who has in effect an
election with respect to a Bonus Deferral Amount pursuant to Subsection (b) above shall withhold the designated Bonus Deferral Amount from the Participant s Bonus and shall notify the Administrator that such amount was withheld as soon as
administratively possible after the withholding thereof.      (ii)  Salary Deferral Amounts . The Employer of a Participant
who has in effect an election with respect to Salary Deferral Amounts pursuant to Subsection (b) above for a Payroll Period shall withhold the designated Salary Deferral Amount from the Participant s Salary for the Payroll Period and shall
notify the Administrator that such amount was withheld as soon as administratively possible after the withholding thereof; provided, however, that, after the first such notice by the Employer to the Administrator, the Employer shall only notify the
Administrator of any change in the withholding of Salary Deferral Amounts.      (d)  Crediting of Deferral Amounts . As
soon as administratively possible after the Administrator shall have received notice (or shall be deemed to have received notice pursuant to Subsection (c)(ii) above) that a Bonus Deferral Amount or a Salary Deferral Amount has been withheld on
behalf of a Participant, the Administrator shall credit the Participant s Deferral Account by such amount.         
   15   

(e)  Crediting of Additional Amounts .      (i)  In General . As of the last day of each Plan Year and as soon as administratively possible thereafter, the Administrator shall
credit to the Deferral Account of each Participant with respect to whom the requirements in Paragraph (ii) below shall be met an amount (if any) that shall be determined by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion and that shall be
intended to compensate for employer contributions that may have been foregone by the Participant under the 401(k) Plan, the Pension Plan, or any other qualified plan maintained by an Employer due to the fact that a Bonus Deferral Amount and/or
Salary Deferral Amounts were credited to the Participant s Salary Deferral Account for the Plan Year.      (ii)
 Requirements for Additional Amount . A Participant shall be eligible to have an amount credited to his or her Deferral Account for a Plan Year in accordance with Paragraph (i) above if the following requirements are met with respect to
the Participant:      (A) A Bonus Deferral Amount and/or Salary Deferral Amounts were credited to the Participant s Salary
Deferral Account for the Plan Year;      (B) The Participant had completed at least one (1) One Year of Service
uninterrupted by a One-year Break in Service as of July 1 of the Plan Year;      (C) The Participant s Eligibility
Termination Date had not occurred as of the last day of the Plan Year; and      (D) The Participant s Basic Compensation
for the Plan Year does not exceed the Compensation Limitation for the Plan Year;      where, for purposes of this Paragraph, the terms  One
Year of Service,   One-year Break in Service,   Basic Compensation  and  Compensation Limitation  shall be as defined in the 401(k) Plan, the Pension Plan, or other qualified plan maintained by an Employer, as
applicable.      (f)  Crediting of Earnings .      (i)  Elections . A Participant may elect as the Earnings Crediting Rate that shall apply to all or a designated portion of the
Participant s Deferral Account the earnings rate on one (1) of the investment options that the Administrator shall from time to time designate. A Participant makes his or her initial election of the Earnings Crediting Rate(s) that shall
apply to the Participant s Deferral Account by properly completing an investment option form and filing it with the Administrator. A Participant who has filed an investment option form with the Administrator may elect to change his or her
investment election with respect to either the investment of future amounts credited to the Participant s Deferral Account and/or the investment of all or a designated portion of the current balance of the Participant s Deferral Account by
so designating on a new investment option form and filing the form with the Administrator or, in accordance with procedures adopted by the Administrator, by so notifying the Administrator in any manner acceptable to the Administrator; provided,
however, that a Participant may not change his or her investment election  
       
   16   

with respect to Common Stock and any such election of the Common Stock as an investment option shall be irrevocable and remain in effect until the
Participant s Distributable Amount is distributed pursuant to Section 4.2 of this Plan. Except as otherwise provided by the Administrator with respect to one (1) or more investment options, any initial investment election made
pursuant to this Paragraph shall be effective as soon as administratively possible after August 31, 2003, and any subsequent investment election made pursuant to this Paragraph shall be effective as soon as administratively possible after the
date that the Participant files the investment option form with the Administrator or otherwise notifies the Administrator of his or her election, and each investment election shall continue in effect until the effective date of a subsequent
investment election properly made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Participant who is required to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules
promulgated thereunder, if the Participant has elected Common Stock as an investment option that shall apply to all or a portion of his or her Deferred Account, such investment option and Earnings Crediting Rate shall not become effective with
respect to any amounts deferred until the earlier of the April 30, July 31, October 31, or January 31 immediately following the date such amounts were deferred, and during the period from the date of deferral until such
April 30, July 31, October 31, or January 31, as applicable, the investment options and Earnings Crediting Rate that shall apply to such deferred amounts shall be the fixed income fund investment option, or such other
investment option as the Administrator shall determine.      The Administrator shall adopt and may amend procedures to be followed by
Participants in electing Earnings Crediting Rate(s) and, pursuant thereto, the Administrator may, among other actions, format investment option forms and establish deadlines for elections.      (ii)  No Election . The Administrator shall from time to time designate a fixed income fund or other investment option that shall be
used to establish the Earnings Crediting Rate that shall apply to the Deferral Account of any Participant who has not made an investment option election pursuant to Subparagraph (i) above.      (iii)  Earnings Credits . As of each Valuation Date, the Administrator shall determine the Earnings Credit applicable to the Deferral
Account of each Participant for the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date (or the portion thereof during which the Deferral Account was maintained): (i) if only one (1) Earnings Crediting Rate shall have applied to the Deferral
Account pursuant to Subsection (i) above, the Earnings Credit shall equal (A) the Earnings Crediting Rate (on an annual basis) times (B) the balance in the Deferral Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the
date as of which the Deferral Account was established times (C) the days in the Valuation Period (or portion thereof) divided by (D) 365; and (ii) if more than one (1) Earnings Crediting Rate shall have applied to the Deferral
Account pursuant to Subsection (i) above, as applicable, the Earnings Credit shall equal the sum of each amount determined as (A) the Earnings Crediting Rate (on an annual basis) times (B) the portion of the balance in the Deferral
Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Deferral Account was established to which such rate applied times (C) the days in the Valuation Period (or portion thereof) divided by (D) 365.
     (iv)  Accounting . As of each Valuation Date, the balance in each Deferral Account maintained as of the Valuation Date
shall be determined as the amount calculated in accordance with the following:      (A) The balance (if any) in the Deferral
Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Deferral Account was established; plus         
   17   

(B) Any amounts credited to the Deferral Account pursuant to Sections 3.3(d) and 3.3(e)
of this Plan during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date; plus      (C) Any positive Earnings Credit determined
for the Deferral Account pursuant to Section 3.3(f)(iii) of this Plan during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date; less      (D) Any negative Earnings Credit determined for the Deferral Account pursuant to Section 3.3(f)(iii) during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date.      (g)  Vesting of Deferral Accounts . With respect to a Participant, the Participant s Deferral Account shall be at all times
nonforfeitable.      3.4  Benefit Accounts .      (a)  Cyclical Accounting for Performance Cycle Ending December 31, 2003 .      (i)
 Crediting of Benefit Amounts . As of December 31, 2003, with respect to a Participant who has a balance in his or her Performance Shares Account, the Administrator shall credit the Participant s Benefit Account as follows:
(1) with a Benefit Amount for the Performance Cycle ending on December 31, 2003, where such Benefit Amount shall equal fifty percent (50%) (rounded to two (2) decimal places) of the product of (i) the number of Performance
Shares in the Participant s Performance Shares Account as of December 31, 2003, and (ii) the Common Stock Price as of December 31, 2003; and (2) with a number of Performance Shares equal to fifty percent (50%) of the
number of Performance Shares in the Participant s Performance Share Account as of December 31, 2003; provided that the Administrator shall account separately for each Benefit Amount credited to a Participant s Account pursuant to this
Subsection.      (ii)  Effect on Performance Shares Account . The Administrator shall reduce the number of Performance
Shares in the Participant s Performance Shares Account to zero (0).      (iii)  Annual Accounting . As of
December 31, 2003, with respect to each Benefit Amount (if any) in a Participant s Benefit Account as of such date, the Administrator shall credit earnings on fifty percent (50%) of such Benefit Amount to the Participant s
Benefit Account, where the amount of such earnings shall equal the product (rounded to two (2) decimal places) of (i) the Long-term Rate for the Performance Cycle in which the Plan Year occurs and (ii) the sum of (A) fifty
percent (50%) of such Benefit Amount and (B) the aggregate amount (if any) of earnings thereon previously credited to the Participant s Benefit Account pursuant to this Subsection.      (b)  Conversion of Other Benefit Amounts to Performance Shares . As of January 1, 2004, the Administrator shall convert all of
the Benefit Amounts in a Participant s Benefit Account that previously were not credited with earnings at the Long-term Rate for a Performance Cycle under Paragraph (a)(iii) above to Performance Shares by crediting the Participant s
Benefit  
       
   18   

Account with a number of Performance Shares equal to the quotient of (1) the aggregate of such Benefit Amounts, divided by (2) the Common Stock
Price on January 1, 2004, and then debiting the Participant s Benefit Account by the aggregate of such Benefit Amounts.      (c)  Cyclical Accounting for Performance Cycles Beginning on or After January 1, 2004 . Effective January 1, 2004, as of each Cycle Beginning Date of a Performance Cycle, or Participation Date, that the Participant s
Performance Shares Account is credited with Performance Shares pursuant Section 3.1(a), the Administrator shall credit each Participant s Benefit Account with the number of Performance Shares in the Participant s Performance Share
Account as of such date and then the Administrator shall reduce the number of Performance Shares in the Participant s Performance Share Account to zero (0).      (d)  Earnings Credits .      (i)  Performance Shares . The investment option and Earnings Crediting Rate applicable to the Performance Shares in the Benefit Account of each Participant shall be Common Stock. As of each Valuation Date on or
after January 1, 2004, the Administrator shall determine the Earnings Credit applicable to the Performance Shares in the Benefit Account of each Participant for the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date (or the portion thereof during
which the Deferral Account was maintained): the Earnings Credit for the Common Stock investment option shall equal (A) the Earnings Crediting Rate (on an annual basis) times (B) the balance in the Benefit Account as of the later of the
last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Benefit Account was established times (C) the days in the Valuation Period (or portion thereof) divided by (D) 365.      (ii)  Benefit Amounts . As of the last day of each Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2004, with respect to each Benefit
Amount (if any) in a Participant s Benefit Account as of the first (1st) day of such Plan Year other than Benefit Amounts consisting of Performance Shares, the Administrator shall credit earnings on such Benefit Amount to the
Participant s Benefit Account, where the amount of such earnings shall equal the product (rounded to two (2) decimal places) of (i) the Long-term Rate for the Performance Cycle in which the Plan Year occurs and (ii) the sum of
(A) such Benefit Amount and (B) the aggregate amount (if any) of earnings thereon previously credited to the Participant s Benefit Account.      (iii)  Accounting . As of each Valuation Date, the balance in each Benefit Account maintained as of the Valuation Date shall be determined as the amount calculated in accordance with the following:      (A) The balance (if any) in the Benefit Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Benefit
Account was established; plus      (B) Any amounts credited to the Benefit Account pursuant to Section 3.4(c) of this Plan
during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date; plus      (C) Any amounts credited to the Benefit Account pursuant to
Section 3.4(e) of this Plan during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date; plus         
   19   

(D) Any positive Earnings Credit determined for the Benefit Account pursuant to
Section 3.4(d)(i) and 3.4(d)(ii) of this Plan during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date; less      (E) Any
negative Earnings Credit determined for the Benefit Account pursuant to Section 3.4(d)(i) during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date.      (e)  Accounting at Eligibility Termination Date . As of the Eligibility Termination Date of a Participant, the Administrator shall take consecutively the actions in Paragraphs (i) through (iv) below, as
applicable, which such actions shall be taken subsequently to the actions to be taken by the Administrator pursuant to Subsections (c) and (d):      (i)  Discretionary Crediting of Performance Shares . If the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date precedes the Cycle Ending Date of a Performance Cycle, the Administrator may, in his or her sole
discretion, credit the Participant s Benefit Account with a number of Performance Shares for the Performance Cycle in which such Eligibility Termination Date occurs equal to the number of Performance Shares credited to such Benefit Account on
the Cycle Beginning Date of such Performance Cycle.      (ii)  Effect on Performance Shares Account . Except as otherwise
provided in Paragraph (i) above, unless the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date coincides with the Cycle Ending Date of a Performance Cycle, the Administrator shall reduce the number of Performance Shares in the Participant s
Benefit Account by the number of Performance Shares credited to such Benefit Account on the Cycle Beginning Date for the Performance Cycle or, if later, the Participant s Participation Date.      (iii)  Determination of Vesting Percentages . The Administrator shall determine the Vesting Percentage applicable to the Benefit
Amounts including Performance Shares and any earnings thereon in the Participant s Benefit Account, in accordance with the following:      (A)  Age and Service Vesting .      (1) If the Participant has both attained age
fifty-five (55) and completed at least five (5) Years of Service, the Participant s Vesting Percentage applicable to the Benefit Amounts including Performance Shares and any earnings thereon shall be one hundred percent (100%).
     (2) Effective January 1, 2004, if such Paragraph (A)(1) above does not apply and if the Participant has completed at
least five (5) Years of Participation, the Participant s Vesting Percentage applicable to the Benefit Amounts including Performance Shares and any earnings thereon shall be determined as follows:       
       
   20   

(B)  Vesting at Death . If the Participant has died, the Participant s Vesting
Percentage applicable to the Benefit Amounts including Performance Shares and any earnings thereon shall be one hundred percent (100%).      (C)  Partial Vesting for Initial Participants . If the Participant is an Initial Participant and neither Subparagraph (A)(1) nor Subparagraph (B) above applies to the Participant, the Participant s
Vesting Percentage applicable to the Benefit Amounts including Performance Shares and any earnings thereon that correlate with the Benefit Amounts previously credited for the Performance Cycle beginning on March 1, 1995 shall be sixty-six and
two-thirds percent (66-2/3%); provided, however, that an Initial Participant s Vesting Percentage may increase based upon his or her Vesting Years of Participation pursuant to Subparagraph (A)(2) above ( e.g. , after completion of five
(5) Years of Participation and seven (7) Vesting Years of Participation, an Initial Participant s Vesting Percentage will be seventy percent (70%)).      (D)  No Vesting . Except as otherwise provided in Subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) above, the Participant s Vesting
Percentage applicable to each such Benefit Amount including Performance Shares plus any such earnings thereon shall be zero percent (0%).      (E)  Gross Misconduct Exception to Vesting . Notwithstanding Subparagraph (A), (B) or (C) above, if the Administrator determines, in his or her sole discretion, that the circumstances of and/or
surrounding the Participant s ceasing to be an Eligible Employee constitute gross misconduct on the part of the Participant, the Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, determine that the Participant s Vesting Percentage
applicable to the Benefit Amounts and the Performance Shares and earnings thereon shall be zero percent (0%).      (iv)
 Forfeiture and Reduction of Benefit Account . If the Administrator determines pursuant to Paragraph (ii) above that the Participant s Vesting Percentage with respect to the Benefit Amounts including Performance Shares and earnings
thereon, is less than one hundred percent (100%), the Administrator shall forfeit all or a portion of such Benefit Amount including Performance Shares plus any earnings thereon by (A) reducing pro rata the Benefit Amounts and Performance Shares
by the product (rounded to two (2) decimals) of (I) the Benefit Amounts and (II) the difference between one hundred percent (100%) and the applicable Vesting Percentage and (B) reducing any such earnings by the product (rounded
to two (2) decimals) of (I) the amount of such earnings and (II) the difference between one hundred percent (100%) and the applicable Vesting Percentage.       
  
   21   

(v)  Crediting of Earnings and Debiting of Losses . In the event that a
Participant s Eligibility Termination Date is neither a Valuation Date nor the last day of a Plan Year, such Eligibility Termination Date shall be deemed to be a Valuation Date and the last day of the Plan Year, and the Administrator shall
determine the applicable Earnings Credits (if any) and value the Participant s Benefit Account in accordance with Section 3.4(d).      3.5  Rollover Accounts .      (a)  Crediting of Rollover Amount . As soon as administratively possible
following the Administrator s determination of the Rollover Amount with respect to a Rollover Participant, the Administrator shall credit to the Rollover Account of the Rollover Participant the Rollover Amount (if any) that shall be determined
by the Administrator in his or her sole discretion.      (b)  Crediting of Earnings .      (i)  Elections . A Rollover Participant may elect as the Earnings Crediting Rate that shall apply to all or a designated portion of
the Rollover Participant s Rollover Account the earnings rate on one (1) of the investment options that the Administrator shall from time to time designate. A Rollover Participant make his or her initial election of the Earnings Crediting
Rate(s) that shall apply to the Rollover Participant s Rollover Account by properly completing an investment option form and filing it with the Administrator. A Rollover Participant who has filed an investment option form with the Administrator
may elect to change his or her investment election with respect to either the investment of future amounts credited to the Rollover Participant s Rollover Account and/or the investment of all or a designated portion of the current balance of
the Rollover Participant s Rollover Account by so designating on a new investment option form and filing the form with the Administrator or, in accordance with procedures adopted by the Administrator, by so notifying the Administrator in any
manner acceptable to the Administrator; provided, however, that a Participant may not change his or her investment election of Common Stock and any such election of Common Stock as an investment option shall be irrevocable and remain in effect until
the Participant s Distributable Amount is distributed pursuant to Section 4.2 of this Plan. Except as otherwise provided by the Administrator with respect to one (1) or more investment options, any initial investment election made
pursuant to this Paragraph shall be effective as soon as administratively possible after August 31, 2003, and any subsequent investment election made pursuant to this Paragraph shall be effective as soon as administratively possible after the
date that the Rollover Participant files the investment option form with the Administrator or otherwise notifies the Administrator of his or her election, and each investment election shall continue in effect until the effective date of a subsequent
investment election properly made.      The Administrator shall adopt and may amend procedures to be followed by Rollover Participants in
electing Earnings Crediting Rate(s) and, pursuant thereto, the Administrator may, among other actions, format investment option forms and establish deadlines for elections.      (ii)  No Election . The Administrator shall from time to time designate a fixed income fund or other investment option that shall be
used to establish the Earnings Crediting Rate that shall apply to the Rollover Account of any Rollover Participant who has not made an investment option election pursuant to Subparagraph (i) above.         
   22   

(iii)  Earnings Credits . As of each Valuation Date, the Administrator shall
determine the Earnings Credit applicable to the Rollover Account of each Rollover Participant for the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date (or the portion thereof during which the Rollover Account was maintained): (i) if only one
(1) Earnings Crediting Rate shall have applied to the Rollover Account pursuant to Subsection (i) above, the Earnings Credit shall equal (A) the Earnings Crediting Rate (on an annual basis) times (B) the balance in the Rollover
Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Rollover Account was established times (C) the days in the Valuation Period (or portion thereof) divided by (D) 365; and (ii) if more than one
(1) Earnings Crediting Rate shall have applied to the Rollover Account pursuant to Subsection (i) above, as applicable, the Earnings Credit shall equal the sum of each amount determined as (A) the Earnings Crediting Rate (on an annual
basis) times (B) the portion of the balance in the Rollover Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Rollover Account was established to which such rate applied times (C) the days in the
Valuation Period (or portion thereof) divided by (D) 365.      (iv)  Accounting . As of each Valuation Date, the
balance in each Rollover Account maintained as of the Valuation Date shall be determined as the amount calculated in accordance with the following:      (A) The balance (if any) in the Rollover Account as of the later of the last preceding Valuation Date or the date as of which the Rollover Account was established; plus      (B) Any positive Earnings Credit determined for the Rollover Account pursuant to Section 3.5(b)(iii) of this Plan during the
Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date; less      (C) Any negative Earnings Credit determined for the Rollover Account
pursuant to Section 3.5(b)(iii) during the Valuation Period ending on the Valuation Date.      3.6      Distribution
Accounts     .      (a)  Accounting at Eligibility Termination Date . As of the Eligibility Termination Date
of a Participant, the Administrator shall take consecutively the actions in Paragraphs (i) and (ii) below, as applicable, which such actions shall be taken subsequently to the actions to be taken by the Administrator pursuant to Sections
3.3(f), 3.4(d), 3.4(e), and 3.5(b):      (i)  Crediting of Distributable Amount . The Administrator shall credit to the
Participant s Distribution Account the sum of (A) the balance (if any) in his or her Benefit Account, and (B) the balance (if any) in his or her Deferral Account (if any), and (C) the balance (if any) in his or her Rollover
Account (if any), and any and all investment elections in effect with respect to each of such balances as of the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date shall be maintained in full force and effect.      (ii) Effect on Benefit Account, Deferral Account, and Rollover Account. The Administrator shall reduce the balance (if any) in the
Participant s Benefit Account, the balance (if any) in the Participant s Deferral Account (if any), and the balance (if any) in the Participant s Rollover Account (if any) to zero dollars ($0).         
   23   

(b)  Crediting of Earnings .      (i)  Performance Shares . With respect to the Performance Shares in a Participant s Distribution Account, the Administrator
shall take the following actions during the period beginning on a Participant s Eligibility Termination Date and ending on the Participant s Employment Termination Date:      (A)  Accounting on Valuation Dates . As of each Valuation Date during the aforementioned period, the Administrator shall credit
earnings (if any) to the Performance Share in the Participant s Distribution Account in accordance with the methodology set forth under Section 3.4(d)(i) of this Plan.      (B)  Accounting at Employment Termination Date . In the event that a Participant s Employment Termination Date is not a
Valuation Date, such Employment Termination Date shall be deemed to be a Valuation Date and the Administrator shall credit earnings (if any) to the Performance Shares in the Participant s Distribution Account in accordance with the methodology
set forth under Section 3.4(d)(i) of this Plan.      (ii)  Prior Deferral Account and Rollover Account Balances . With
respect to the portion of a Participant s Distribution Account previously transferred from his or her Deferral Account and/or Rollover Account and not consisting of Performance Shares, the Administrator shall take the following actions during
the period beginning on a Participant s Eligibility Termination Date and ending on the Participant s Employment Termination Date:      (A)  Accounting on Valuation Dates . As of each Valuation Date during the aforementioned period, the Administrator shall credit earnings (if any) to such portion of the Participant s Distribution Account in
accordance with the methodology set forth under Section 3.3(f)(iii).      (B)  Accounting at Employment Termination
Date . In the event that a Participant s Employment Termination Date is not a Valuation Date, such Employment Termination Date shall be deemed to be a Valuation Date and the Administrator shall credit earnings (if any) on such portion of a
Participant s Distribution Account in accordance with Section 3.3(f)(iii) and/or 3.5(b)(iii), as applicable.      (iii)  Balance of Distribution Account . With respect to the balance of a Participant s Distribution Account after the crediting of earnings under Paragraphs (i) and (ii) above, the Administrator shall take the following
actions during the period beginning on the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date and ending on the Participant s Employment Termination Date:      (A)  Annual Accounting Before Employment Termination Date . As of the last day of each Plan Year during the aforementioned period,
the Administrator shall credit earnings to the Distribution Account (if any) of each Participant whose Employment Termination Date has not occurred by the last day of the Plan Year, where the amount of such earnings shall equal the product (rounded
to two (2) decimal places) of (A) the Long-term Rate for the Performance Cycle in which the Plan Year occurs, (B) the sum of the monthly balances in the Distribution Account during the Plan Year not otherwise credited with earnings
under Paragraph (i) or (ii) above, and (C) the quotient (rounded to four (4) decimal places) of (I) the number of whole months during the Plan Year in which the Distribution Account had a balance, and (II) twelve (12).
        
   24   

(B)  Accounting at Employment Termination Date . As of the Employment Termination
Date of a Participant, if such date is later than the Participant s Eligibility Termination Date, the Administrator shall credit earnings to the Participant s Distribution Account, where the amount of such earnings shall equal the product
(rounded to two (2) decimal places) of (A) the Long-term Rate for the Performance Cycle in which the Participant s Employment Termination Date occurred, (B) the sum of the monthly balances in the Participant s Distribution
Account during the Plan Year in which his or her Employment Termination Date occurred not otherwise credited with earnings under Paragraph (i) or (ii) above, and (C) the quotient (rounded to four (4) decimal places) of
(I) the number of whole months during such Plan Year in which the Participant s Distribution Account had a balance, and (II) twelve (12).      (iv)  Annual Accounting Following Employment Termination Date . With respect to a Participant whose Employment Termination Date has occurred but who is receiving, or a deceased Participant whose Beneficiary or
Beneficiaries are receiving, installment distributions of the Participant s Distributable Amount pursuant to Section 4.2, as of each anniversary date of the Participant s Employment Termination Date, the Administrator shall credit
earnings to the Participant s Distribution Account, where the amount of such earnings shall equal the product (rounded to two (2) decimal places) of (A) the Long-term Rate for the Performance Cycle in which such anniversary date
occurs and (B) the balance in the Participant s Distribution Account as of such anniversary date.         
   25   

ARTICLE IV       DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS       4.1  Election of Form and Medium of Distribution to Participant .
Subject to Article IX, at the time a Participant completes the enrollment form required by Section 2.1 and at any other such times as the Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may prescribe:      (a) The Participant may elect, in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator, to receive the Participant s
Distributable Amount (if any) and/or any shares of Common Stock representing a distribution of the Participant s Option Shares Account (if any) payable upon his or her Employment Termination Date in one of the following forms of distribution:
     (i) a lump-sum distribution; or      (ii) annual installments over two (2), five (5) or ten (10) years if:      (A) with respect to any distribution of the Participant s Option Shares Account, the Participant has (A) both attained age
fifty-five (55) and completed at least five (5) Years of Service or (B) completed fifteen (15) Years of Participation; or      (B) with respect to any portion of the Participant s Distributable Amount attributable to a Grandfathered Amount, the Participant has (A) both attained age fifty-five (55) and completed at least five
(5) Years of Service or (B) completed fifteen (15) Years of Participation; or      (C) with respect to any
portion of the Participant s Distributable Amount attributable to a Section 409A Amount, the Participant has both attained age fifty-five (55) and completed at least five (5) Years of Service.      (b) The Participant may elect, in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator, to receive any such lump-sum distribution
or annual installments in cash, in shares of Common Stock, or partially in cash and partially in shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that any Performance Shares and any other portion of the Participant s Distributable Amount with respect
to which the Participant previously elected Common Stock as an investment option shall be paid in shares of Common Stock in accordance with Section 4.2(d).      4.2  Distributions Upon Termination of Employment . Subject to Articles V and IX:      (a)
 Available Benefits . Upon the Employment Termination Date of a Participant, the Participant or his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, if the Participant has died, shall be eligible to receive payment of the Distributable Amount.   
     
   26   

(b)  Form and Medium of Payment .      (i)  Payment to Participant . A Participant who is eligible for payment of the Distributable Amount pursuant to Subsection
(a) above shall receive the Distributable Amount in the form and medium elected by the Participant on the most recent election form filed by the Participant pursuant to Section 4.1 prior to the Plan Year in which his or her Employment
Termination Date occurs; provided, however, that:      (A) any Performance Shares and any other portion of the
Participant s Distributable Amount with respect to which the Participant previously elected Common Stock as the investment option shall be paid in shares of Common Stock; and      (B) subject to Paragraph (A) above and Section 9.2(c), if no such election form was filed with the Administrator, the
Distributable Amount shall be paid as a lump-sum distribution in cash.      (ii)  Payment to Beneficiary . Subject to
Section 9.3 with respect to a Section 409A Amount, a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant who is eligible for payment of all or part of the Distributable Amount pursuant to Subsection (a) above shall receive all or such part, as
applicable, of the Distributable Amount as a lump-sum distribution in cash and in shares of Common Stock to the extent of the Performance Shares (if any) and any other portion of the Participant s Distributable Amount with respect to which the
Participant previously elected Common Stock as the investment option.      (c)  Timing of Payment . The Distribution Date
for payment of the Distributable Amount in accordance with Subsections (a) and (b) above shall be the earliest date administratively possible within the ninety (90)-day period following the respective Participant s Employment
Termination Date.      (d)  Payment in Common Stock . If all or part of a Participant s Distributable Amount shall be
paid in shares of Common Stock (treasury shares, authorized and unissued shares, authorized and issued shares, or a combination of the foregoing), the Administrator shall calculate the number of such shares of Common Stock as follows and the whole
number of shares so calculated shall be paid in shares of Common Stock and the value of any fractional shares shall be paid in cash.      (i) With respect to the portion of the Distributable Amount not represented by Performance Shares, as the quotient (rounded to two decimal places) of (A) such portion of the Distributable Amount and (B) the Common Stock Price as
of the Participant s Employment Termination Date.      (ii) With respect to the portion of the Distributable Amount
represented by Performance Shares, as the product of (A) the number of Performance Shares and (B) the Common Stock Price as of the Participant s Employment Termination Date.      (e)  Payment of Installment Distributions . Subject to Section 9.2(d) with respect to a Section 409A Amount, after the
Distribution Date of a Participant who shall receive installment distributions of the Distributable Amount, each subsequent installment distribution that shall be due shall be paid to the Participant as of the next succeeding anniversary of the
Participant s Employment Termination Date; provided, however, that, in the event of the death of the Participant before all such  
       
   27   

installment distributions shall be made, all or part, as applicable, of the total of the remaining installment distributions shall be paid as of the next
succeeding anniversary of the Participant s Employment Termination Date to the Participant s Beneficiary or each of his or her Beneficiaries, as applicable; provided, however, that if the Participant elected to receive the Distributable
Amount in the form of annual installments and the Participant dies prior to receiving all of such annual installments, the Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, allow the Beneficiary of the deceased Participant to continue receiving
installment payments rather than receiving such remaining payments as a lump sum except as otherwise provided in Section 9.3 with respect to any Section 409A Amounts.      (f)  Administrative Matters . Subject to Section 8.5, the Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, delay the
Distribution Date for the benefits payable to or on behalf of a Participant to the extent necessary to determine the benefits properly.      4.3  Distribution of Option Shares Accounts . Subject to Article V:      (a)  Available Benefits . Upon the
Employment Termination Date of a Participant, the Participant or his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, if the Participant has died, shall be eligible to receive payment of the Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account in
accordance with this Section.      (b)  Form of Payment .      (i)  Payment to Participant . As of the Distribution Date defined in accordance with Section 4.2(c), a Participant who is
eligible for payment of the Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account pursuant to Subsection (a) above shall receive, calculated as of the Participant s Employment Termination Date, either (A) one (1) payment
of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the whole number of Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account and cash equal to the value of any fractional Option Shares, or (B) one (1) installment payment of a number of
shares of Common Stock equal to the quotient of: (1) the number of Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account and (2) the number of installment payments elected by the Participant on the most recent election form filed
by the Participant pursuant to Section 4.1 prior to the Plan Year in which his or her Employment Termination Date occurs; provided, however, that, if no such election form was filed with the Administrator, a lump-sum distribution shall be paid.
     (ii)  Payment to Beneficiary . As of the Distribution Date determined in accordance with Section 4.2(c), a
Beneficiary of a deceased Participant who is eligible for payment of all or some of the Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account pursuant to Subsection (a) above shall receive, calculated as of the Participant s
Employment Termination Date, the Beneficiary s share of the number of shares of Common Stock as equals the number of Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account and cash equal to the value of any fractional Option Shares.
     (c)  Payment of Installment Distributions . After the Distribution Date of a Participant who shall receive installment
distributions of the Option Shares in the Participant s Option Shares Account, each subsequent installment distribution that shall be due shall be paid to the  
       
   28   

Participant as of the next succeeding anniversary of the Participant s Employment Termination Date, where the amount of each installment distribution
shall be equal to the amount of the first such installment distribution, as calculated pursuant to Subsection (b)(i) above, except that an installment distribution due after any additional Dividend Shares are credited to a Participant s Option
Shares Account pursuant to Section 3.2 shall include such Dividend Shares and a cash payment shall be made of the value of any fractional Option Shares remaining when the final installment distribution shall be paid; provided, however, that, in
the event of the death of the Participant before all such installment distributions shall be made, all or part, as applicable, of the total of the remaining installment distributions shall be paid as of the next succeeding anniversary of the
Participant s Employment Termination Date to the Participant s Beneficiary or each of his or her Beneficiaries, as applicable; provided, however, that if the Participant elected to receive the Option Shares in the form of installments and
the Participant dies prior to receiving all of such installments, the Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, allow the Beneficiary of the deceased Participant to continue receiving installment payments rather than receiving such remaining
payments as a lump sum.      (d)  Cash for Withholding Taxes . Notwithstanding Subsections (b) and (c) above, a
Participant or a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant may request, in accordance with procedures established by the Administrator, that a distribution in cash be made to the extent required for him or her to pay any withholding taxes attributable
thereto.      (e)  Administrative Matters . Subject to Section 8.5, the Administrator may, in his or her sole
discretion, delay the distribution date for the benefits payable to or on behalf of a Participant to the extent necessary to determine the benefits properly.      4.4  In-service Distribution from Deferral Accounts . The Administrator may, but shall not be required to, establish procedures under which an in-service distribution may be made to a Participant of Bonus
Deferral Amounts or Salary Deferral Amounts in his or her Deferral Account (if any) in the event that the Participant has an unforeseeable emergency, as described in Subsection (a) below, and the distribution is reasonably needed to satisfy the
unforeseeable emergency, as described in Subsection (b) below:      (a)  Unforeseeable Emergency . With respect to a
Participant, an unforeseeable emergency is severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or of a  dependent  of the Participant, as such term shall be defined in
Code Section 152(a); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or another similar extraordinary and unforeseeable set of circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.      (b)  Distribution Reasonably Necessary to Satisfy Emergency . A distribution shall be deemed to be reasonably necessary to satisfy a
Participant s unforeseeable emergency if the following requirements are met:      (i) The distribution does not exceed the
amount of the Participant s financial need plus amounts necessary to pay any income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution;         
   29   

(ii) The Participant s financial need cannot be relieved:      (A) Through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise,      (B) By liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent that such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial
hardship, or      (C) By the termination of the Participant s election (if any) with respect to a Bonus Deferral Amount or
Salary Deferral Amounts.      4.5  Beneficiaries . The Administrator shall provide to each new Participant a form on which he or she may
designate (a) one or more Beneficiaries who shall receive all or a portion of the Distributable Amount upon the Participant s death, including any Beneficiary who shall receive any such amount only in the event of the death of another
Beneficiary; and (b) the percentages to be paid to each such Beneficiary (if there is more than one). A Participant may change his or her or her Beneficiary designation from time to time by filing a new form with the Administrator. No such
Beneficiary designation shall be effective unless and until the Participant has properly filed the completed form with the Administrator, and a Beneficiary designation form that designates the spouse of a Participant as his Beneficiary (whether or
not any other Beneficiary is also designated) shall be void with respect to the designation of the spouse upon the divorce of the Participant and the spouse with the result that the Participant s former spouse shall not be a Beneficiary unless
the Participant files a new form with the Administrator and designates his or her former spouse as a Beneficiary.      If a deceased
Participant is not survived by a designated Beneficiary or if no Beneficiary was effectively designated, upon the Participant s death, any benefit to which the Participant was then entitled shall be paid in a lump-sum distribution in cash to
the Participant s spouse and, if there is no spouse, to the Participant s estate. If a designated Beneficiary is living at the death of the Participant but dies before receiving any or all of the benefit to which the Beneficiary was
entitled, such benefit or the remaining portion of such benefit shall be paid in a lump-sum distribution in cash to the estate of the deceased Beneficiary.         
   30   

ARTICLE V       CLAIMS AND ADMINISTRATION       5.1  Applications . A Participant or the Beneficiary of a deceased
Participant who is or may be entitled to benefits under this Plan shall apply for such benefits in writing if and as required by the Administrator, in his or her sole discretion.      5.2  Information and Proof . A Participant or the Beneficiary of a deceased Participant shall furnish all information and proof required by the
Administrator for the determination of any issue arising under the Plan including, but not limited to, proof of marriage to a Participant or a certified copy of the death certificate of a Participant. The failure by a Participant or the Beneficiary
of a deceased Participant to furnish such information or proof promptly and in good faith, or the furnishing of false or fraudulent information or proof by the Participant or Beneficiary, shall be sufficient reason for the denial, suspension, or
discontinuance of benefits thereto and the recovery of any benefits paid in reliance thereon.      5.3  Notice of Address Change . Each
Participant and any Beneficiary of a deceased Participant who is or may be entitled to benefits under this Plan shall notify the Administrator in writing of any change of his or her address.      5.4  Claims Procedure .      (a)  Claim Denial . The Administrator shall provide adequate notice in writing to any Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant whose application for benefits, made in accordance with Section 5.1 of this Plan, has been
wholly or partially denied. Such notice shall include the reason(s) for denial, including references, when appropriate, to specific Plan or Trust Agreement provisions; a description of any additional information necessary for the claimant to perfect
the claim, if applicable and an explanation of why such information is necessary; and a description of the claimant s right to appeal under Subsection (b) below.      The Administrator shall furnish such notice of a claim denial within ninety (90) days after the date that the Administrator received the claim. If
special circumstances require an extension of time for deciding a claim, the Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing thereof within such ninety (90)-day period and shall specify the date a decision on the claim shall be made, which shall
not be more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date that the Administrator received the claim. Then, the Administrator shall furnish any denial notice on the claim by the later date so specified.      (b)  Appeal Procedure . A claimant or his or her duly authorized representative shall have the right to file a written request for
review of a claim denial within sixty (60) days after receipt of the denial, to review pertinent documents, records and other information relevant to his or her claim without charge (including items used in the determination, even if not relied
upon in making the final determination and items demonstrating consistent application and compliance with this Plan s administrative processes and safeguards), and to submit comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the
claim, even if the information was not submitted or considered in the initial determination.         
   31   

(c)  Decision Upon Appeal . In considering an appeal made in accordance with
Subsection (b) above, the Administrator shall review and consider any written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim, even if the information was not submitted or considered in the initial determination by the
claimant or his or her duly authorized representative. The claimant or his or her representative shall not be entitled to appear in person before any representative of the Administrator.      The Administrator shall issue a written decision on an appeal within sixty (60) days after the date the Administrator receives the appeal together
with any written comments relating thereto. If special circumstances require an extension of time for a decision on an appeal, the Administrator shall notify the claimant in writing thereof within such sixty (60)-day period. Then, the Administrator
shall furnish a written decision on the appeal as soon as possible but no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the date that the Administrator received the appeal. The decision on the appeal shall be written in a manner calculated to
be understood by the claimant and shall include specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. If the claimant loses on appeal, the decision shall include the following information provided in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant: (1) the specific reason(s) for the adverse determination; (2) reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the determination is based; (3) a statement of the claimant s right to
receive at no cost information and copies of documents relevant to the claim, even if such information was not relied upon in making determinations; and (4) a statement of the claimant s rights to sue under ERISA.      5.5  Status, Responsibilities, Authority and Immunity of Administrator .      (a)  Appointment and Status of Administrator . The Plan Sponsor shall appoint the Administrator. The Plan Sponsor may remove the
Administrator and appoint another Administrator or, if the Administrator is a committee, the Plan Sponsor may remove any or all members of the committee and appoint new members. The Administrator shall be the  administrator  of the Plan,
as such term shall be defined in Section 3(16)(A) of ERISA.      (b)  Responsibilities and Discretionary Authority .
The Administrator shall have absolute and exclusive discretion to manage the Plan and to determine all issues and questions arising in the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan and the Trust Agreement, including, but not
limited to, issues and questions relating to a Participant s eligibility for Plan benefits and to the nature, amount, conditions, and duration of any Plan benefits. Furthermore, the Administrator shall have absolute and exclusive discretion to
formulate and to adopt any and all standards for use in calculations required in connection with the Plan and rules, regulations, and procedures that he or she deems necessary or desirable to effectuate the terms of the Plan; provided, however, that
the Administrator shall not adopt a rule, regulation, or procedure that shall conflict with this Plan or the Trust Agreement. Subject to the terms of any applicable contract or agreement, any interpretation or application of this Plan or the Trust
Agreement by the Administrator, or any rules, regulations, and procedures duly adopted by the Administrator, shall be final and binding upon Employees, Participants, Beneficiaries, and any and all other persons dealing with the Plan.         
   32   

(c)  Delegation of Authority and Reliance on Agents . The Administrator may, in his
or her discretion, allocate ministerial duties and responsibilities for the operation and administration of the Plan to one or more persons, who may or may not be Employees, and employ or retain one or more persons, including accountants and
attorneys, to render advice with regard to any responsibility of the Administrator.      (d)  Reliance on Documents . The
Administrator shall incur no liability in relying or in acting upon any instrument, application, notice, request, letter, or other paper or document believed by the Administrator to be genuine, to contain a true statement of facts, and to have been
executed or sent by the proper person.      (e)  Immunity and Indemnification of Administrator . The Administrator shall
not be liable for any of his or her acts or omissions, or the acts or omissions of any employee or agent authorized or retained pursuant to Subsection (c) above by the Administrator, except any act of the Administrator or any such person as
constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Plan Sponsor shall indemnify the Administrator, to the fullest extent permitted by law, if the Administrator is ever made a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending,
or completed action, suit, claim, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative (including, but not limited to, any action by or in the right of the Plan Sponsor), by reason of the fact that the Administrator is or was, or
relating to the Administrator s actions as, the Administrator, against any expenses (including attorneys  fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement that the Administrator incurs as a result of, or in connection with, such
action, suit, claim, or proceeding, provided that the Administrator had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.      5.6  Enrollment, Deferral Election and Other Procedures . The Administrator shall adopt and may amend procedures to be followed by Eligible Employees and Participants in electing to participate in this Plan, in electing to have Bonus
Deferral Amounts and Salary Deferral Amounts made on their behalf, in selecting a form of distribution of any Distributable Amount, and in taking any other actions required thereby under this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, any
enrollment, deferral election and other procedures relating to Section 409A Amounts shall be subject to the provisions of Article IX of the Plan.      5.7  Correction of Prior Incorrect Allocations . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan, in the event that an adjustment to a Performance Shares Account, Benefit Account, Deferral Account, Option
Shares Account, Rollover Account, or Distribution Account shall be required to correct an incorrect allocation to such account, the Administrator shall take such actions as he or she deems, in his or her sole discretion, to be necessary or desirable
to correct such prior incorrect allocation.      5.8  Facility of Payment . If the Administrator shall determine that a Participant or the
Beneficiary of a deceased Participant to whom a benefit is payable is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness, accident or other incapacity, the Administrator may, in his or her discretion, direct that any payment otherwise due to
the Participant or Beneficiary be paid to the legal guardian or other representative of the Participant or Beneficiary. Furthermore, the Administrator may, in his or her discretion, direct that any payment otherwise due to a minor Participant or
Beneficiary of a deceased Participant be paid to the guardian of the minor or the  
       
   33   

person having custody of the minor. Any payment made in accordance with this Section to a person other than a Participant or the Beneficiary of a deceased
Participant shall, to the extent thereof, be a complete discharge of the Plan s obligation to the Participant or Beneficiary.      5.9
 Unclaimed Benefits . If the Administrator cannot locate a Participant or the Beneficiary of a deceased Participant to whom payment of benefits under this Plan shall be required, following a diligent effort by the Administrator to locate the
Participant or Beneficiary, such benefit shall be forfeited.         
   34   

ARTICLE VI       STATUS OF PLAN AND TRUST AGREEMENT       6.1  Unfunded Status of Plan . The Plan constitutes a mere
promise by the Plan Sponsor to pay benefits in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and, to the extent that any person acquires a right to receive benefits from the Plan Sponsor under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than any right of any
unsecured general creditor of the Plan Sponsor. Subject to Section 6.2, nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall create or be construed so as to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary
relationship between the Plan Sponsor and any Participant, Beneficiary, or other person.      6.2  Shares to be Issued . The aggregate
number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued by the Plan Sponsor to satisfy the obligations under the Plan shall not exceed two million (2,000,000) shares of Common Stock. The Common Stock may come from treasury shares, authorized but
unissued shares, or previously issued shares that the Plan Sponsor reacquires, including shares it purchases on the open market. In the event of a nonreciprocal transaction between the Plan Sponsor and its shareholders that causes the per-share fair
value of the Common Stock to change, such as a stock dividend, stock split, spin-off, rights offering, or recapitalization through a large nonrecurring cash dividend, this Section 6.2 of the Plan shall be deemed to be proportionately and
appropriately amended to adjust the maximum number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan pursuant to this Section.      Solely for
purposes of documenting administrative practice under the terms of the Plan, in the event of such a nonreciprocal transaction between the Plan Sponsor and its shareholders that causes the per-share fair value of the Common Stock to change, such as a
stock dividend, stock split, spin-off, rights offering, or recapitalization through a large nonrecurring cash dividend, the Performance Shares Accounts, Option Shares Accounts, Deferral Accounts, Benefit Accounts, Rollover Accounts, and Distribution
Accounts under the Plan shall be proportionately and appropriately adjusted in the type(s), class(es), number of shares, and Common Stock Price credited to such Performance Shares Accounts, Option Shares Accounts, Deferral Accounts, Benefit
Accounts, Rollover Accounts, and Distribution Accounts under the Plan. The Administrator shall make any such adjustments so that the proportionate interest of each Participant immediately following any of the foregoing events will, to the extent
practicable, be the same as immediately preceding any such event, and the Administrator s adjustments shall be final, binding, and conclusive.      6.3  Existence and Purposes of Trust Agreement .      (a)  Existence of Trust Agreement . In accordance with
Section 6.1, the Plan Sponsor may enter into a Trust Agreement with a trustee to hold a trust fund that may become the source of Plan benefits as provided in the Trust Agreement, and such trust fund may hold shares of Common Stock. In such
event, the trustee would have such powers to hold, invest, reinvest, control, and disburse such trust fund as shall, at such time and from time to time, be set forth in the Trust Agreement or this Plan.         
   35   

(b)  Integration of Trust Agreement . The Trust Agreement shall be deemed to be a
part of this Plan, and all rights of Participants and Beneficiaries of deceased Participants under this Plan shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Agreement, if and as applicable.      (c)  Rights to Any Trust Fund Assets . No Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant, nor any other person, shall have any
right to, or interest in, any assets of the trust fund maintained under the Trust Agreement upon termination of such Participant s employment or otherwise, except as may be specifically provided from time to time in this Plan, the Trust
Agreement, or both, and then only to the extent so specifically provided.         
   36   

ARTICLE VII       PLAN AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION       7.1  Right to Amend . The Plan Sponsor reserves the right to
amend the Plan, by action duly taken by its Board of Directors, at any time and from time to time to any extent that the Plan Sponsor may deem advisable, and any such amendment shall take the form of an instrument in writing duly executed by one or
more individuals duly authorized by the Board of Directors. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Plan Sponsor specifically reserves the right to amend the Plan retroactively as may be deemed necessary. Notwithstanding the foregoing
sentences, the Plan Sponsor shall not amend the Plan so as to change the method of calculating the Benefit Amount attributable to any Performance Shares in any Participant s Performance Shares Account as of the date that such an amendment would
otherwise be effective; so as to reduce the balance in the Deferral Account, Benefit Account, Option Shares Account, Rollover Account, or Distribution Account of any Participant as of such otherwise effective date; or so as to reduce the Vesting
Percentage applicable to any Benefit Amount of any Participant that shall have been credited to the Participant s Benefit Account (plus any earnings credited thereon) prior to such otherwise effective date (whether or not such Vesting
Percentage shall have been determined pursuant to Section 3.4 as of such date), unless any such amendment shall be reasonably required to comply with applicable law or to preserve the tax treatment of benefits provided under the Plan or is
consented to by the affected Participant.      7.2  Right to Terminate . The Plan Sponsor reserves the right to terminate the Plan, by
action duly taken by its Board of Directors, at any time as the Plan Sponsor may deem advisable. Upon termination of the Plan, (a) if the trust fund maintained under the Trust Agreement has not become the source for Plan benefits, the Plan
Sponsor shall pay or provide for the payment of all liabilities with respect to Participants and Beneficiaries of deceased Participants by distributing amounts to and on behalf of such Participants and Beneficiaries; and (b) if the trust fund
maintained under the Trust Agreement has become the source for Plan benefits, the Plan Sponsor shall direct the trustee thereof to pay to or provide for the payment of all reasonable administrative expenses of the Plan and trust fund, and thereafter
the Plan Sponsor shall direct such trustee to use and apply the remaining assets of the trust fund to provide for liabilities thereof with respect to Participants and Beneficiaries of deceased Participants by continuing the trust fund and making
provision under the Trust Agreement for the payment of such liabilities or by distributing amounts from the trust fund to and on behalf of such Participants and Beneficiaries; provided that, if, after payment or provision for payment of all
reasonable administrative expenses of the Plan and trust fund maintained under the Trust Agreement and satisfaction of all liabilities of such trust fund with respect to Participants and Beneficiaries of deceased Participants, there shall be excess
assets remaining, the trustee thereof shall pay such excess assets to the Plan Sponsor.         
   37   

ARTICLE VIII       MISCELLANEOUS       8.1  No Guarantee of Employment . Nothing contained in this Plan shall be
construed as a contract of employment between any Employee and the Plan Sponsor or any Employer, as a right of any Employee to be continued in any employment position with, or the employment of, the Plan Sponsor or any Employer, or as a limitation
of the right of the Plan Sponsor or any Employer to discharge any Employee.      8.2  Nonalienation of Benefits . Any benefits or rights
to benefits payable under this Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, charge, garnishment, execution, or levy of any kind, either voluntary or involuntary, including any
such liability that is for alimony or other payments for the support of a Beneficiary or former Beneficiary, or for the support of any other relative, before payment thereof is received by the Participant, Beneficiary of a deceased Participant, or
other person entitled to the benefit under the Plan; and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, charge, or otherwise dispose of any right to benefits payable under this Plan shall be void; provided, however,
that this Section shall not prohibit the Administrator from offsetting, pursuant to Section 8.3 of this Plan, any payments due to a Participant, the Beneficiary of a deceased Participant, or any other person who may be entitled to receive a
benefit under this Plan.      8.3  Offset of Benefits . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the event that a
Participant or the Beneficiary of a deceased Participant owes any amount to the Plan, the Plan Sponsor, or any other Employer, whether as a result of an overpayment or otherwise, the Administrator may, in his or her discretion, offset the amount
owed or any percentage thereof in any manner against any payments due from the Plan to the Participant or Beneficiary.      8.4  Taxes .
Neither the Plan Sponsor nor any Employer represents or guarantees that any particular federal, state, or local income, payroll, personal property or other tax consequence will result from participation in this Plan or payment of benefits under this
Plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, deduct and withhold applicable taxes from any payment of benefits under this Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, each Participant and
Beneficiary shall be responsible for any and all taxes, interest, and penalties with respect to his or her Section 409A Amounts. The Administrator also may permit such obligations to be satisfied by the transfer to the Plan Sponsor or any
Employer of cash, shares of Common Stock, or other property.      8.5  Timing of Distributions . The provisions of this Section 8.5
shall apply notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary. The timing of all distributions under the Plan is subject to the Plan Sponsor s and any Employer s deduction limitations under Code Section 162(m). Distributions
instituted during a period during which the Plan Sponsor prevents trading in Common Stock (a  blackout period ) will not be effective until the first business day following the end of the blackout period. The Administrator also may, in his
or her sole discretion, postpone any distribution to comply with applicable law or internal policies of the Plan Sponsor.         
   38   

8.6  Not Compensation Under Other Benefit Plans . No amounts in a Participant s Benefit Account
or Deferral Account shall be deemed to be salary or compensation for purposes of the 401(k) Plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Plan Sponsor or any Employer except as and to the extent otherwise specifically provided in any such plan.
     8.7  Merger or Consolidation of Plan Sponsor . If the Plan Sponsor is merged or consolidated with another organization, or another
organization acquires all or substantially all of the Plan Sponsor s assets, such organization may become the  Plan Sponsor  hereunder by action of its board of directors and by action of the board of directors of the Plan Sponsor if
still existent. Such change in plan sponsors shall not be deemed to be a termination of this Plan.      8.8  Savings Clause . If any term,
covenant, or condition of this Plan, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall to any extent be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Plan, or the application of any such term, covenant, or condition to
persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held to be invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and, except to the extent of any such invalidity or unenforceability, this Plan and each term, covenant, and
condition hereof shall be valid and shall be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.      8.9  Governing Law . This Plan shall be
construed, regulated and administered under the laws of the District of Columbia to the extent not pre-empted by ERISA or any other federal law.      8.10  Construction . As used in this Plan, the masculine and feminine gender shall be deemed to include the neuter gender, as appropriate, and the singular or plural number shall be deemed to include the other, as appropriate, unless
the context clearly indicates to the contrary.      8.11  Headings No Part of Agreement . Headings of articles, sections and subsections
of this Plan are inserted for convenience of reference; they constitute no part of the Plan and are not to be considered in the construction of the Plan.         
   39   

ARTICLE IX       SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO SECTION 409A AMOUNTS       9.1  Scope . The provisions of this
Article IX shall apply to Section 409A Amounts only and shall not apply to any Grandfathered Amounts. If the provisions of this Article IX conflict with any other provisions of the Plan, the provisions of this Article IX shall control.
     9.2  Special Provisions . Notwithstanding any provision of Articles III and IV of the Plan and Section 5.6 of the Plan, with
respect to a Participant:      (a)  Elections . With respect to any Section 409A Amount and in addition to any
enrollment form and election requirements provided for in the Plan or established by the Administrator, any election for a Plan Year shall be made not later than December 31 of the calendar year immediately preceding such Plan Year; provided,
however, that, in the case of the first Plan Year in which a Participant becomes an Eligible Employee, any election for the portion of the Plan Year during with the Participant is an Eligible Employee shall be made within thirty (30) days after
the date the Participant first becomes an Eligible Employee.      (b)  Form and Medium of Distribution . Any election made
with respect to a Section 409A Amount pursuant to Section 9.2(a) above shall specify the form and medium of distribution with respect to that Section 409A Amount. The form of distribution so elected by a Participant shall be one of
the forms of distribution set forth in Section 4.1(a) of the Plan and shall be subject to the restriction in Section 4.1(a)(ii) of the Plan concerning the availability of installment payments. The medium of distribution shall be specified
in accordance with Section 4.1(b) of the Plan.      (c)  Default Form of Payment . Notwithstanding
Section 4.2(b)(i)(B) of the Plan, with respect to any Participant who has both attained age fifty-five (55) and completed at least five (5) Years of Service, if such Participant fails to elect a form of distribution with respect to
any Section 409A Amount, the Participant shall be deemed to have elected to have such Section 409A Amount paid in the form of five (5) installment payments in accordance with the payment frequency set forth in Section 9.2(d)
below.      (d)  Timing of Payment . Notwithstanding Article IV of the Plan and specifically Sections 4.2(c) and
(e) of the Plan, the Distribution Date for a Section 409A Amount (or the first installment of a Section 409A Amount, if applicable) shall be no earlier than the first day of the month following the last day of the six month period
commencing on the Participant s Employment Termination Date. If pursuant to the terms of the Plan a Section 409A Amount is to be distributed in installments, the second installment of the Section 409A Amount shall be made on
January 15 of the calendar year following the date of payment of the initial installment, and each subsequent installment thereafter (if any) shall be made on each January 15 thereafter until all installment payments of a Section 409A
Amount have been paid to the Participant. In the avoidance of doubt, the amount of each installment payment of a Section 409A Amount shall equal the quotient of (i) the total Section 409A Amount to be distributed, divided by
(ii) the number of installment payments remaining in the applicable period of annual installments.         
   40   

(e)  Subsequent Changes in Time of Payment and Form of Distribution . With respect
to a Section 409A Amount, a Participant may elect to delay a payment of the Section 409A or to change the form of distribution of the Section 409A Amount provided that the following conditions are met:      (i) Any election under this Section 9.2(e) shall not take effect until a date that is at least twelve (12) months after the date
on which the election is made.      (ii) The payment with respect to which an election under this Section 9.2(e) is made
shall be deferred for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date such payment would otherwise have been paid.      (iii) Any election under this Section 9.2(e) shall be made on a date that is not less than twelve (12) months prior to the date the payment is originally scheduled to be made.      (f)  Permitted Payment Delays . Notwithstanding Section 8.5 of the Plan and in addition to the foregoing provisions of this
Section 9.2, a payment of a Section 409A Amount to a Participant may be delayed to a date after the designated payment date under either of the following two circumstances:      (i) Where the Plan Sponsor reasonably anticipates that an Employer s deduction
with respect to the payment of a Section 409A Amount would otherwise be limited or eliminated by application of Code Section 162(m); provided, however, that such payment shall be made to the Participant (i) during the
Participant s first taxable year in which the Plan Sponsor reasonably anticipates that the deduction of such payment will not be limited or eliminated by the application of Code Section 162(m), or, if later, (ii) during the period
beginning with the Participant s Employment Termination Date and ending on the later of (A) the last day of the taxable year of the Plan Sponsor in which the Participant s Employment Termination Date occurs or (B) the fifteenth
(15   th   ) day of the third month following the Participant s Employment Termination Date.      (ii) Where the Plan Sponsor reasonably anticipates that the making of the payment of the Section 409A Amount will violate Federal
Securities laws or other applicable law; provided, however, that such payment will be made to the Participant at the earliest date at which the Plan Sponsor reasonably anticipates that the making of such payment will not cause such violation.
     (g)  Unforeseeable Emergency . For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of Section 4.4 of the Plan shall apply
to any Bonus Deferral Amounts and any Salary Deferral Amounts that are considered to be Section 409A Amounts.      (h)
 Plan Termination . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.2 of the Plan, the termination of the Plan shall not accelerate the time and form of payment of any Section 409A Amount except when the Plan Sponsor elects to terminate
the Plan in accordance with one of the following:      (i) The Plan Sponsor elects to terminate the Plan within twelve
(12) months of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331 or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  503(b)(1)(A), provided that the Section 409A Amounts are included in Participants  gross
incomes in the latest of (a) the calendar year in which the Plan termination occurs, (b) the calendar year in which the Section 409A Amount is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, or (c) the first calendar year
in which the payment of the Section 409A Amount is administratively practical.         
   41   

(ii) The Plan Sponsor elects to terminate the Plan under the following conditions:
(a) the Employer terminates all arrangements sponsored by the Employer that would be aggregated with any terminated arrangements under the regulations promulgated under Code Section 409A if the same Participant had deferrals of
compensation under all such terminated arrangements; (b) no payments (other than payments that would be payable under the terms of the arrangements if the termination had not occurred) are made within twelve (12) months of the termination
of the arrangements; (c) all payments are made within twenty-four (24) months of the termination of the arrangements; and (d) no Employer adopts a new arrangement that would be aggregated with any terminated arrangement under the
regulations promulgated under Code Section 409A if the same Participant participated in both arrangements, at any time within five (5) years following the date of termination of the Plan.      (iii) The Plan Sponsor elects to terminate the Plan in accordance with any such other events and conditions that the Commissioner of the
Internal Revenue Service may prescribe in generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.      (i)
 Definition of Payment . With respect to a Section 409A Amount, the entitlement to a series of installment payments shall be treated as the entitlement to a single payment, and each such installment payment shall not be considered a
separate payment hereunder.      9.3  Payments to a Beneficiary . Notwithstanding Section 4.2(e) of the Plan, with respect to any
Section 409A Amounts, if a Participant elected to receive the Distributable Amount in the form of annual installments and the Participant dies prior to receiving all of such annual installments, the Beneficiary of the deceased Participant shall
receive such remaining payments as a lump-sum in accordance with Section 4.2(b)(ii) of the Plan.         
   42   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Sponsor has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed by its duly
authorized officer as of the last date signed by the officer as set forth below.        

PLAN SPONSOR:   
 
  DANAHER CORPORATION   

By:  

Daniel L. Comas   

Date:  

43   

DANAHER CORPORATION   SUBSIDIARIES        EXECUTIVE DEFERRED INCENTIVE PROGRAM       APPENDIX A       APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE        

A-1   

DANAHER CORPORATION   SUBSIDIARIES        EXECUTIVE DEFERRED INCENTIVE PROGRAM       APPENDIX B       PRESENT VALUE FACTORS        
     
     MONTHS FACTORS        
     
     MONTHS FACTORS        
       
   B-1   

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 10
 dex1014.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.14

Exhibit 10.14 

Exhibit 10.14        DANAHER CORPORATION        2007 E XECUTIVE  I NCENTIVE 
C OMPENSATION  P LAN        Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2009       

P URPOSE    
      
  Danaher Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), wishes to motivate, reward, and retain executive officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. To further these
objectives, the Company hereby sets forth this Danaher Corporation 2007 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the   Plan  ), effective as of January 1, 2007, to provide participants with performance-based bonus awards
(  Awards  ), in accordance with Section 162(m) (  Section 162(m)  ) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the   Code  ). (All references to Section 162(m) or any other Code provision include successor
provisions, related regulations, and amendments.)   

P ARTICIPANTS    
      
  The  Participants  in the Plan shall be the Executive Officers of the Company (including those of any subsidiary, operating unit, or division).   

Executive Officer  has the meaning set forth in Rule 3b-7 issued under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and anyone else the Committee determines to treat
as an Executive Officer for purposes of this Plan.   

A DMINISTRATOR    
      
  The Plan s  Administrator  will be the Compensation Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors (the   Board  ) of the
Company.   

The Committee will include two or more members, each of whom qualifies as an  outside director  within the meaning of Section 162(m), and those outside directors will have exclusive
authority under this Plan to make Awards and determine the attainment of Performance Goals. The Committee may satisfy this requirement through (i) providing that persons who are not  outside directors  cannot vote on an issue, (ii)
allowing those persons to abstain from voting, or (iii) creating a subcommittee of qualifying outside directors to take action with respect to this Plan. If a Committee member intended to qualify as an outside director does not in fact so qualify,
the mere fact of such nonqualification will not invalidate the payment of any Award or other action by the Committee under the Plan that was otherwise valid under the Plan.   

The Committee is responsible for the general operation and administration of the Plan and for carrying out its provisions and has full discretion in interpreting and administering the provisions
of the Plan. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee may exercise such powers and authority of the Board as the Committee may find necessary or appropriate to carry out its functions. The Committee will exercise its powers under
the Plan in a manner that preserves the Company s Federal income tax deduction for payments made under the Plan, in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m), to the maximum practical extent.   

G ENERAL  R ESPONSIBILITIES         OF   THE  C OMMITTEE     
      
  Subject to the terms of the Plan, for each Performance Period the Committee will:   

establish each Participant s potential Award,    

define Performance Goals and other Award terms and conditions for each Participant,    

determine and certify in writing the Award amounts earned, based on actual performance as compared to the Performance Goals,    

determine and make permitted Negative Discretion Adjustments to Awards otherwise earned, and    

decide whether, under what circumstances, and subject to what terms, Awards will be paid on a deferred basis (including automatic deferrals at the Committee s
election or elective deferrals at the election of Participants).    

Unless the Plan otherwise expressly provides, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions made under or with respect to the Plan and all Awards made under the Plan are
within the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee and will be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, Participants, and Beneficiaries or other persons having or claiming any rights under the Plan.   

A WARDS     
      
  For any single Performance Period, an Award shall only be payable to a Participant if the Company has positive net income for such Performance Period as determined under GAAP and the amount
payable to a Participant for such Performance Period shall equal the lesser of (1) five million dollars ($5,000,000.00), or (2) the amount earned pursuant to the Performance Goals and other Award terms and conditions established by the Committee
with respect to such Performance Period; in each case, subject to any further Negative Discretion Adjustments as the Committee may determine. The Committee will establish each Participant s potential Award, including the applicable Performance
Goals and related terms and conditions, for each Performance Period within the Applicable Period. A Participant s potential Award may be expressed in dollars or may be based on a formula that is consistent with the provisions of the
Plan.   
       
   - 2 -   

P ERFORMANCE        P ERIOD     
      
  A  Performance Period  is a period for which Performance Goals are set and during which performance is to be measured to determine whether a Participant is entitled to payment of an Award
under the Plan. A Performance Period may coincide with one or more complete or partial calendar or fiscal years of the Company. Unless otherwise designated by the Committee, the Performance Period will be based on the calendar year.   

P ERFORMANCE        G OALS     
      
  The Committee will have the authority to establish and administer Performance Goals with respect to such Awards as it considers appropriate, which Performance Goals must be satisfied, as the
Committee specifies, before a Participant receives an Award.   

Performance Goals will be based exclusively on one or more of the following performance-based measures determined based on the Company and its subsidiaries on a group-wide basis or on the basis
of subsidiary, business platform, or operating unit results (subject to the Committee s exercise of negative discretion):   

earnings per share (on a fully diluted or other basis),    

pretax or after tax net income,    

operating income,    

gross revenue,    

profit margin,    

stock price targets or stock price maintenance,    

working capital,    

free cash flow,    

cash flow,    

return on equity,    

return on capital or return on invested capital,    

earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA),    

strategic business criteria, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified revenue, market penetration, geographic business expansion goals, cost
targets, or objective goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures,    

or any combination of these measures.    
       
   - 3 -   

The Committee shall determine whether such Performance Goals are attained, and such determination will be final and conclusive. Each Performance Goal may be expressed in absolute and/or relative
terms, may be based on or use comparisons with internal targets, the past performance of the Company (including the performance of one or more subsidiaries, divisions, business platforms, and/or operating units) and/or the past or current
performance of other companies. In the case of earnings-based measures, Performance Goals may use comparisons relating to capital (including, but not limited to, the cost of capital), shareholders  equity and/or shares outstanding, or to assets
or net assets.   

The measures used in setting Performance Goals under the Plan for any given Performance Period will, to the extent applicable, be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ) and in a manner consistent with the methods used in the Company s audited financial statements, without regard to (i) extraordinary or nonrecurring items in accordance with GAAP, (ii) the impact of any
change in accounting principles that occurs during the Performance Period (or that occurred during any period that the Performance Period is being compared to) and the cumulative effect thereof (provided that the Committee may either apply the
changed accounting principle to all periods referenced in the Award, or exclude the changed accounting principle from all periods referenced in the Award), (iii) goodwill and other intangible impairment charges, (iv) gains or charges
associated with discontinued operations or restructuring activities, (v) gains or charges related to the sale or impairment of assets, (vi) all charges directly related to acquisitions, including all contingent liabilities identified as of
the acquisition date, (vii) the impact of any change in tax law that occurs during the Performance Period (or that occurred during any period that the Performance Period is being compared to) which exceeds $10 million, and (viii) other
objective income, expense, asset, and/or cash flow adjustments as may be consistent with the purposes of the Performance Goals set for the given Performance Period and specified by the Committee within the Applicable Period, unless in each case the
Committee decides otherwise within the Applicable Period; provided, that with respect to the gains and charges referred to in sections (iii) through (vi), only gains or charges that individually or as part of a series of related items exceed
$10 million are excluded.   

In all cases, Performance Goals are to be set in a manner that will satisfy any applicable requirements under Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.162-27(e)(2) (as amended from time to time). Subject to any
amendment to such regulation, such requirements include requirements that achieving Performance Goals be  substantially uncertain  at the time that they are established, that Performance Goals be defined in such a   
       
   - 4 -   

way that a third party with knowledge of the relevant facts could determine whether and to what extent the Goals have been met, and such a third party could determine the maximum amount of the
resulting Award payable (subject to the Committee s right to make Negative Discretion Adjustments).   

The  Applicable Period  with respect to any Performance Period for an Award means a period beginning on or before the first day of the Performance Period and ending no later than the
earlier of (i) the 90th day of the Performance Period or (ii) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has been completed.   

Any action required under the Plan to be taken within the Applicable Period may be taken at a later date only if the provisions of Section 162(m) or the regulations thereunder are modified, or
are interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service, to permit such later date. In such event, the definition of the Applicable Period under this Plan will be deemed to be amended accordingly.   

P AYMENT         OF 
A WARDS     
      
  Subject to the limitations set forth in this section, Awards determined under the Plan for a Performance Period will be paid to Participants in cash no earlier than the January 1st and no later
than the March 15th of the calendar year following the end of the Performance Period to which the Awards apply, unless deferred pursuant to the Plan.   

C ERTIFICATION       
      
  No Award will be paid unless and until the Committee, based on the Company s audited financial results for such Performance Period (as prepared and reviewed by the Company s
independent public accountants) to the extent applicable, has certified in the manner prescribed under applicable regulations the extent to which the Performance Goals for the Performance Period have been attained and has made and exercised its
decisions regarding the extent of any Negative Discretion Adjustment of Awards for Participants for the Performance Period.   

D EFERRAL        
      
  All or any portion of the Award for any given Performance Period may be deferred under the Danaher Corporation   Subsidiaries Amended and Restated Executive Deferred Incentive
Program.   

C ONTINUED        E MPLOYMENT     
      
  The Committee may require that Participants for a Performance Period must still be employed as of end of the Performance Period and/or as of the later date that the Awards for the Performance
Period are communicated to be eligible for an Award for the Performance Period. Any such requirement must be established and announced within the Applicable Period, and may be subject to such exceptions as the Committee may specify within the
Applicable Period.   
       
   - 5 -   

F ORFEITURE         OR 
P RORATION     
      
  Within the Applicable Period and subject to the Committee certification required for payment of Awards, the Committee may adopt such forfeiture, proration, or other rules as it deems
appropriate, in its sole and absolute discretion, regarding the impact on Awards of a Participant s death, Disability, or other events or situations determined by the Committee to constitute an appropriate exception to attainment of any
Performance Goal for purposes of Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.162-27(e)(2) (as amended from time to time).   

A Participant shall be considered to have a  Disability  if the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or
mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can
be expected to result in death or that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering
employees of the Participant s employer.   

N EGATIVE        D ISCRETION        A DJUSTMENTS     
      
  The Committee s powers include the power to make  Negative Discretion Adjustments , which are adjustments that eliminate or reduce (but not increase) an Award otherwise payable to a
Participant for a Performance Period. No Negative Discretion Adjustment may cause an Award to fail to qualify as  performance based compensation  under Section 162(m).   

O THER        P LANS  

A Participant in this Plan may not also participate in the Company s general bonus plans during any Performance Period if such participation would cause an Award under this Plan to fail to
qualify as  performance based  under Section 162(m).   

Awards will not be treated as compensation for purposes of any other compensation or benefit plan, program, or arrangement of the Company or any subsidiary unless and except to the extent that
the Board or the Committee determines in writing.   

Neither the adoption of this Plan nor the submission of the Plan to the Company s shareholders for approval will be construed as limiting the power of the Board or the Committee to adopt
such other incentive arrangements as either may otherwise deem appropriate.   

L EGAL        C OMPLIANCE     
      
  The Company will not make payments of Awards until all applicable requirements imposed by Federal and state laws, rules, and regulations, and by any applicable regulatory agencies, have been
fully met. No provision in the Plan or action taken under it authorizes any action that Federal or state laws otherwise prohibit.   
       
   - 6 -   

The Plan is intended to conform with all provisions of Section 162(m) and Treas. Reg.   1.162-27 to the extent necessary to allow the Company a Federal income tax deduction for Awards
as  qualified performance-based compensation.    

Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee must administer the Plan, and Awards may be granted and paid, only in a manner that conforms to such laws, rules, and
regulations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan will be treated as amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules, and regulations.   

T AX  W ITHHOLDING    
      
  The Company may make all appropriate provisions for the withholding of Federal, state, and local taxes imposed with respect to Awards, which provisions may vary with the time and manner of
payment.   

N ONTRANSFER         OF 
R IGHTS     
      
  Except as and to the extent the law requires, or as the Plan expressly provides, a Participant s rights under the Plan may not be assigned, pledged, or otherwise transferred in any way,
whether by operation of law or otherwise or through any legal or equitable proceedings (including bankruptcy), by the Participant to any person.   

B ENEFICIARY        D ESIGNATIONS     
      
  Each Participant may designate in a written form filed with the Committee (or another designated recipient) the person or persons (the   Beneficiary   or
  Beneficiaries  ) to receive the amounts (if any) payable under the Plan if the Participant dies before the Award payment date for a Performance Period. A Beneficiary designation filed under this section will not be considered a
prohibited transfer of rights.   

A Participant may change a Beneficiary designation at any time without the Beneficiary s consent (unless otherwise required by law) by filing a new written Beneficiary designation with the
Committee. A Beneficiary designation will be effective only if the Company is in receipt of the designation before the Participant s death.   

If no effective Beneficiary designation is made, the beneficiary of any amounts due will be the Participant s estate.   
       
   - 7 -   

A MENDMENT   OR        T ERMINATION         OF  P LAN     
      
  Subject to the limitations set forth in this section, the Board may amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time, without the consent of the Participants or their
Beneficiaries.   

The Board or the Committee may make any amendments necessary to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder.   

The Board must submit any Plan amendment to the Company s shareholders for their approval if and to the extent such approval is required under Section 162(m).   

L IMITATIONS   ON        L IABILITY     
      
  No member of the Committee and no other individual acting as a director, officer, other employee or agent of the Company will be liable to any Participant, former Participant, spouse,
Beneficiary, or any other person or entity for any claim, loss, liability, or expense incurred in connection with the Plan. No member of the Committee will be liable for any action or determination (including, but limited to, any decision not to
act) made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award under the Plan. If a Committee member intended to qualify as an  outside director  under Section 162(m) does not in fact so qualify, the mere fact of such nonqualification will
not invalidate any award or other action made by the Committee under the Plan that otherwise was validly made under the Plan.   

N O  E MPLOYMENT        C ONTRACT     
      
  Nothing contained in this Plan constitutes an employment contract between the Company and the Participants. The Plan does not give any Participant any right to be retained in the Company s
employ, nor does it enlarge or diminish the Company s right to end the Participant s employment or other relationship with the Company.   

A PPLICABLE  L AW    
      
  The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) govern this Plan and its interpretation.   

D URATION   OF         THE  P LAN     
      
  The Plan will remain effective until terminated by the Board,  provided ,  however , that the continued effectiveness of the Plan will be subject to the approval of the Company s
shareholders at such times and in such manner as Section 162(m) may require.   

D ISCLOSURE   AND        A PPROVAL   OF         THE  P LAN     
      
  The Plan must be submitted to Company shareholders for their approval. The specific terms of the Plan, including the class of employees eligible to be Participants, the Performance Goals, and
the terms of payment of Awards, must be disclosed to the shareholders to the extent Section 162(m) requires. The shareholders must approve the Plan by a separate vote after such disclosure. If the shareholders do not approve the Plan, the Plan will
be treated as void and of no effect.   
       
   - 8 -   

C ODE  S ECTION  409A R EQUIREMENTS    
      
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to a Participant under this Plan. For purposes
of Code Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Code Section 409A) made under this Plan shall be considered a  separate payment.  In addition, for purposes of Code Section 409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the
definition of deferred compensation under Code Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (i) the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and (ii) (with respect to amounts paid as separation pay
no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing the Participant s  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A)) the  two years/two-times  separation pay exemption of
Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated by reference.   

If the Participant is a  specified employee  as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his separation from
service, to the extent any payment under this Plan constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Code Section 409A), and to the extent required by Code Section 409A, no payments due under this Plan may
be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s separation from service, or (ii) the Participant s date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period
shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s separation from service. If this Plan fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, neither the Company nor
any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the Participant by Code Section 409A, and the Participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax,
penalty or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.   
       
   - 9 -   

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 11
 dex1015.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.15

Exhibit 10.15 

Exhibit 10.15        S ENIOR  L EADER   S  S EVERANCE  P AY  P LAN          OF  D ANAHER  C ORPORATION   AND   ITS  A FFILIATED  C OMPANIES         P LAN   AND  S UMMARY  P LAN  D ESCRIPTION     

S ENIOR  L EADER   S  S EVERANCE 
P AY  P LAN         O F  D ANAHER  C ORPORATION   AND 
 ITS  A FFILIATED  C OMPANIES         Table of Contents        

Page    
 
    I.   
     
    Introduction   
      
  1   

II.   
     
    Eligibility   
      
  1   

III.   
     
    Calculation of Severance Pay   
      
  4   

IV.   
     
    Provisions Applicable to Severance Benefits   
      
  5   

V.   
     
    Termination or Amendment of the Plan   
      
  9   

VI.   
     
    How the Plan is Administered   
      
  9   

VII.   
     
    How to Make or Appeal a Claim   
      
  9   

VIII.   
     
    Other Plan Provisions   
      
  11   

IX.   
     
    ERISA Rights   
      
  12   

X.   
     
    General Information   
      
  14   
       
   -i-   

S ENIOR  L EADER   S  S EVERANCE 
P AY  P LAN          OF  D ANAHER  C ORPORATION   AND 
 ITS  A FFILIATED  C OMPANIES         Plan and Summary Plan Description        

I.   
   I NTRODUCTION          Danaher Corporation
(the  Company ) has established this Senior Leader s Severance Pay Plan of Danaher Corporation and its Affiliated Companies (the  Plan ) for the benefit of eligible Senior Leader employees of the Company and the
Company s domestic (United States) affiliates (individually and collectively referred to as the  Employer ). The purpose of the Plan is to provide an eligible Senior Leader employee who is terminated under the conditions described
herein a measure of financial security while seeking new employment.      The Plan is an unfunded welfare benefit plan for purposes of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) and a severance pay plan within the meaning of United States Department of Labor regulations section 2510.3-2(b). The Plan supersedes any prior Employer severance pay plans,
programs or policies affecting eligible employees, both formal and informal. This document serves as both the Plan document and the Summary Plan Description for the Plan for all purposes under ERISA.      Nothing in this Plan is to be read or interpreted as changing the Employer policy that all covered employees are employed at will, and the Employer
continues to retain the absolute right and power to terminate any employee with or without good cause and with or without prior notice. Furthermore, nothing contained in this Plan confers any right or guarantee of continued employment on any
employee. No one has any authority to make any promises or commitments changing this employment at will policy, unless clearly set forth in a written employment agreement specifically designated as such and signed by an authorized officer of the
Employer.       

II.   
   E LIGIBILITY           

A.  
   Eligible Employees         Regular full-time salaried
employees of domestic (U.S.) Employer locations who meet one of the following requirements (an  eligible employee ) shall be eligible for severance pay under this Plan under certain conditions:       

1.  
  The employee is a president of a U.S. operating Employer with annual revenue of at least $100 million, or is a management employee who is a direct report to such a president
employee; or         

2.  
  The employee is employed by an Employer in a capacity considered to be the equivalent of a more senior role than  president employees  described in Item 1 above (for
example, Danaher Corporation Executive Officers, Corporate Officers, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Group Executives, etc.) or is a management employee who is a direct report to employees in such a senior leadership role.
          
   -1-   

Eligible employees will be eligible for benefits under the Plan if their employment is permanently
terminated due to:       

1.  
  a reduction in the Employer s workforce or a plant closing;         

2.  
  elimination of their jobs or positions;         

3.  
  termination by the Employer prior to and in connection with a sale or divestiture of the Employer, or any division, business unit, plant or office location of the Employer, where
the employees affected are not offered continuing or new employment by the purchaser or the Employer and do not leave prior to the termination date selected by the Employer; or         

4.  
  the Employer s determination that they are unsuited for their position, and/or their performance, though well-intentioned, does not meet the Employer s standards. Despite
this provision, employees terminated for  cause  (see definition in Section II.B below) are not eligible for benefits under this Plan.        For purposes of the Plan, a  full-time  employee is one regularly scheduled to work 30 or more hours per week.      The Plan does not apply to part-time employees (employees regularly scheduled to work less than 30 hours per week), temporary employees, independent contractors, consultants, individuals performing services for the
Employer who have entered into an independent contractor or consulting agreement with the Employer, or leased workers or personnel of the Employer. In particular, individuals not treated as employees by the Employer on its payroll records are
excluded from participation even if a court or administrative agency determines that such individuals are employees and not independent contractors.      The decision as to whether or not an employee is eligible for severance is solely within the Plan Administrator s discretion.       

B.  
   Employees Ineligible to Receive Benefits         An
otherwise eligible employee shall not be eligible for severance pay or benefits under the Plan if the Plan Administrator determines, in its sole discretion, that:       

1.  
    the employee voluntarily quits or is discharged for cause, as determined by the employee s Employer in its sole discretion ( cause  for purposes of
the Plan means: (i) the employee s dishonesty, fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement, willful misconduct or gross negligence with respect to the Employer, or any other action in willful disregard of the interests of the Employer;
(ii) the employee s conviction of, or pleading guilty or no contest to (1) a felony, (2) any misdemeanor (other than a traffic violation), or (3) any other crime or activity that would impair the employee s ability to
perform duties or impair the business  
          
   -2-   

reputation of the Employer; (iii) the employee s willful failure or refusal to satisfactorily perform any duties assigned to the employee;
(iv) the employee s failure or refusal to comply with Company standards, policies or procedures, including without limitation the Company s Standards of Conduct as amended from time to time; (v) the employee s violation of
any restrictive covenant agreement with an Employer ,  (vi) the employee s engaging in any activity that is in conflict with the business purposes of the Employer, as determined in the Employer s sole discretion), or (vii) a
material misrepresentation or a breach of any of the employee s representations, obligations or agreements under this Agreement);          

2.  
  the employee voluntarily elects early or normal retirement;         

3.  
  the employee terminates employment by reason of death;         

4.  
  the employee terminates employment under circumstances that entitle the employee to receive long term disability benefits;         

5.  
  the employee s position is eliminated by the Employer, but the employee is offered and refuses the same or a substantially similar position at comparable base salary and
comparable annual target incentive compensation at the same location or within commuting distance of his or her home (defined as 35 miles from his or her residence, or his or her current commute, whichever is greater);         

6.  
  the employee s employment with the Employer is terminated, but the employee is offered and refuses the same or a substantially similar position at comparable base salary and
comparable annual target incentive compensation at the same location or within commuting distance of his or her home (defined as 35 miles from his or her residence, or his or her current commute, whichever is greater) by an entity purchasing the
Employer or any division, business unit, plant or office location of the Employer, which employs such employees;         

7.  
  the employee s employment with the Employer ends after this Plan has been terminated; or         

8.  
  the employee has been informed of the termination of his or her employment, but the employee leaves employment with the Employer before a date authorized by the Employer.

C.  
   Multiple Severance Arrangements         In the event an
otherwise eligible employee is covered by an authorized individual written employment, noncompetition or severance agreement that provides for the payment of severance pay, noncompete pay or other termination or post-termination pay, whether in the
form of weeks or months of pay or a flat dollar amount, the terms of such other arrangement shall be honored in terms of the time and form and amount of pay, but such other pay (of whatever nature) shall not be duplicative of severance pay under
this Plan. In such event, no such duplicate payment shall be made from this Plan. In the  
       
   -3-   

event this Plan provides severance pay in excess of the amount payable under such other arrangement (or provides for severance benefits not available under
such other arrangement, such as subsidized COBRA continuation benefits), then only the additional severance pay (or benefits) shall be made under the Plan in accordance with the payment schedule otherwise set forth under this Plan. For example, if
an employee with twenty-four (24) years of service is entitled to thirty (30) weeks of noncompete pay in a lump sum payment under the terms of an individual employment agreement (but no subsidized COBRA continuation), and is entitled to
forty-eight (48) weeks of severance pay under this Plan, then such employee shall receive thirty (30) weeks of noncompete pay in a lump sum payment in accordance with the terms of the individual employment agreement, and shall receive the
remaining eighteen (18) weeks of severance pay under this Plan beginning with week thirty-one (31) from the date benefits under this Plan would otherwise begin. Such employee would also be entitled to subsidized COBRA continuation for the
full 48 weeks under the Plan, as described in Section IV.C. below.       

III.   
   C ALCULATION   OF  S EVERANCE  P AY           

A.  
   Severance Pay         The amount of the benefits an
eligible employee will receive will be based on his or her base salary at the time he or she is notified of termination. Any performance/merit reviews that are pending, in process, or  past due  will not affect the amount of the severance
benefits. For purposes of calculating  salary  for commission sales representatives, the base salary will be based on the employee s total earnings (salary plus commission) for the twelve-month period preceding the commencement of any
severance pay. If the terminating employee s length of service is less than twelve months, severance pay will be based on the terminating employee s  pro rata  earnings during the term of employment.       

B.  
   Amount of Severance Pay         Employees are not entitled
to any severance pay or benefits under the Plan unless they sign (and do not later revoke) a Separation and General Release Agreement (discussed below).      Eligible employees who sign (and do not later revoke) a Separation and General Release Agreement within the allotted timeframe shall be entitled to receive severance pay under the Plan equal to a minimum amount of
three months of annual base salary, plus one month of annual base salary for each year of service. The maximum amount of severance pay an eligible employee can receive under this Plan is 12 months of annual base salary. Years of service are
calculated in full years as of the date of termination based on the most recent anniversary date, as determined by the Employer s personnel records.      The Company may, in its sole discretion, provide additional benefits to a Plan participant, or make available additional or other forms of severance pay or benefits. In the event any benefit paid to a participant
under the Plan constitutes  deferred compensation  for purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ( Section 409A ), all payments to such participant shall be paid as provided in Section IV.G. below.         
   -4-   

IV.   
   P ROVISIONS  A PPLICABLE   TO  S EVERANCE  B ENEFITS           

A.  
   Method of Severance Payments    Severance payments will be made only if the Employer receives a signed Separation and General Release Agreement from the eligible employee
no later than 21 days after his or her termination of employment if the eligible employee is age 40 and older and no later than 14 days after the eligible employee s termination of employment if he or she is age 39 and younger. If the
termination of employment is part of an exit incentive or other employment termination program for a group or class of employees, then the Employer must receive the signed Separation and General Release Agreement from an eligible employee age 40 and
older no later than 45 days after his or her termination of employment (14 days after termination of employment in the case of an eligible employee age 39 and younger). If the eligible employee age 40 and older has not revoked the Separation and
General Release Agreement, payment will begin on the next regular pay date following 10 days after the Employer receives the signed Separation and General Release Agreement. Severance payments to eligible employees shall be paid in accordance with
the Employer s customary payroll practices for the Employer s full and partial pay periods until the total severance is paid. Severance pay is subject to any federal, state and local tax deductions and withholding.

B.  
   Rehire and Calculation of Years of Service    Severance benefits will cease upon an eligible employee s rehire with any Employer. If a rehired employee is later
separated from service and again eligible for benefits under the Plan, severance pay for the employee s years of service is payable only once. If any employee is separated, paid the maximum amount of severance pay to which he was entitled under
the Plan and is later rehired, that employee will begin to accumulate years of service for any subsequent severance pay under the Plan only from the date of rehire. To the extent an employee begins receiving severance pay under the Plan but is
rehired before the entire benefit is paid, the severance pay will cease as of the rehire date, and the employee will be credited with the years of service for which he did not receive severance pay for purposes of calculating any subsequent
severance pay under the Plan. (For example, if an eligible employee is entitled to ten weeks of severance pay for five years of service, but is rehired after six weeks of severance has been paid, that employee would not be credited with three years
of service as of his rehire date for purposes of calculating any later severance pay that could become payable under the Plan. The employee would be credited with the two years of service for which no severance benefit had been paid.)

C.  
     Benefit Continuation  - The number of weeks during which the eligible employee is entitled to severance pay is called the  Severance Period.  An
employee eligible for severance payments who is enrolled in one or more of the following programs under the Danaher Corporation and Subsidiaries Medical Plan, Dental  
          
   -5-   

Plan or Vision Plan ( Danaher Corporation Welfare Benefit Plans ) shall be given the opportunity to continue enrollment and coverage in such
programs during the Severance Period at the same cost as active employees in positions similar to that held by the eligible employee at termination:          

Medical          

Prescription Drug          

Dental          

Vision         For purposes of medical,
prescription drug, dental and vision coverage, the coverage shall be provided under Section 4980B(f) of the Internal Revenue Code ( COBRA ) for the maximum COBRA coverage period available, subject to all conditions and limitations
(including payment of premiums) of COBRA. If the eligible employee or one or more covered dependents elect COBRA coverage, the Company shall pay the Company portion of the COBRA coverage during the Severance Period, and the eligible employee shall
continue to pay the active employee rate. Upon the expiration of the Severance Period, the employee shall be responsible for paying the full cost of the COBRA coverage (including a two percent administration charge) for the balance of the maximum
COBRA coverage period.      The appropriate deductions for such COBRA coverage will be made by the Payroll Department on an after-tax basis
during the duration of the Severance Period. If the employee contribution rates for such coverage change for employees generally during the Severance Period, the change in rates will apply to individuals receiving severance payments.      Enrollment in all other Employer benefits, including the Danaher Corporation   Subsidiaries Disability Plan and the Danaher
Corporation   Subsidiaries Life Insurance Plan shall cease on the employee s last day of work and will not remain in effect during the Severance Period. (Note: You may be entitled to certain COBRA and reimbursement rights for your
Health Care Flexible Spending Account. Certain reimbursements from your Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account may also be available. Contact Human Resources for details.) Severance pay does not constitute compensation for purposes of any Company
or Employer 401(k) Plan or any other plan. All contributions to the Danaher Corporation or Employer 401(k) Plan on behalf of the individual receiving severance under the Plan will cease on the employee s last day of work and any elections to
contribute to that plan will not remain in effect during the Severance Period.       

D.  
   Vacation  - An employee shall receive vacation pay for any earned and unused vacation pay in accordance with the applicable Employer s Vacation Policy then in effect.
Vacation benefits are not earned or accrued during the Severance Period.           
   -6-   

E.  
   Mandated Payments  - The severance pay available under this Plan is the maximum amount an eligible employee is entitled to receive in the event of involuntary termination of
employment. To the extent that a federal, state or local law may mandate the Employer to make a payment to an eligible employee because of involuntary termination of employment or in accordance with a plant closing law, the severance pay available
under the Plan shall be reduced by the amount of such mandated payment. In no event, however, will your severance pay under this Plan be less than three (3) months of severance pay. The period of your subsidized COBRA coverage is reduced in the
same way.         

F.  
   Separation and General Release Agreement  - To receive severance pay and benefits under the Plan, an eligible employee must sign a Separation and General Release Agreement in
a form prepared by the Company, and this Separation and General Release Agreement shall have the effect of waiving and releasing all legally waivable claims or lawsuits against the Employer and its affiliates, its and their respective officers,
directors, agents, representatives and employees based on any facts occurring prior to the time of the effective date of the release. An eligible employee age 40 and older will have 21 days (45 days in cases of group termination) to consider the
Separation and General Release Agreement. An eligible employee age 39 and younger will have 14 days to consider the Separation and General Release Agreement. Eligible employees are advised of their right to contact an attorney of their choice at
their own expense to review the Separation and General Release Agreement if they so desire. The eligible employee must then submit a signed Separation and General Release Agreement to the Plan Administrator (or its delegate) within the time
specified by the Plan Administrator.        An eligible employee age 40 and older may revoke a signed Separation and General Release
Agreement within seven (7) days of signing the Separation and General Release Agreement (within fifteen (15) days for Minnesota employees age 40 and older). An eligible employee age 39 and younger cannot revoke a signed Separation
Agreement and General Release. Any revocation by an eligible employee age 40 and older must be made in writing and must be received by the Plan Administrator within such revocation period. An eligible employee who timely revokes the Separation and
General Release Agreement shall not be eligible to receive severance pay or continued health and life insurance benefits under this Plan. An eligible employee who revokes his or her signature on a Separation and General Release Agreement is required
to reimburse the Employer for any pay and benefits provided under this Plan prior to the revocation, including severance pay received and premiums for participation in the Danaher Corporation Welfare Benefit Plans. The Employer reserves all remedies
available to it at law for the recovery of such amounts.       

G.  
   Section 409A Restrictions  - Section 409A places certain restrictions on when severance pay may be distributed if the eligible employee is considered a
 specified employee  under Section 409A (generally,  specified employees  are the 50 highest-paid employees of the Company in a given year) and the severance pay is considered  deferred compensation  under
Section 409A. Not all severance pay under this Plan, however, is considered deferred compensation for these purposes.           
   -7-   

(1)  
  Any payments provided under the Plan on or before March 15th of the calendar year following the eligible employee s  separation of service  (as defined by
Section 409A) will be treated as a short-term deferral under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4) and not deferred compensation under Section 409A.         

(2)  
  If any payments are provided to an eligible employee under the Plan after March 15th of the calendar year following the eligible employee s  separation of
service  (as defined by Section 409A), then to the extent the total of such payments does not exceed the limit provided under the Section 409A exemption for involuntary separation pay, such payments will be considered separation pay
due to involuntary separation from service under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) and not deferred compensation under Section 409A.         

(3)  
  If the eligible employee is entitled to additional payments under the Plan that are not described in subsections (1) or (2) above, and the eligible employee is considered
a  specified employee  under Section 409A (as applied according to Company procedures), such payments will not be made until the earlier of (a) the first day of the seventh month following the date of the eligible employee s
 separation from service  (as defined by Section 409A), or (b) the eligible employee s death. Any delayed payments will be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month
following the date of the eligible employee s  separation from service  (as defined by Section 409A).         

(4)  
  For purposes of Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Section 409A) made under this Plan is considered a  separate payment. 

H.  
  Death Benefits   In the event an eligible employee dies before receiving all of the severance pay otherwise payable to the eligible employee under the Plan, the remaining
balance of the deceased eligible employee s severance pay shall be payable to the deceased eligible employee s then living spouse. If no spouse survives the eligible employee, then the remaining balance will be paid to the deceased
eligible employee s estate. Such payment shall be made in a single lump sum within 30 days of the date of the eligible employee s death.         

I.  
  Interrupted or Terminated Payroll Deductions for COBRA Continuation Coverage   In the event that payroll deductions for payment of COBRA Coverage is disrupted or terminated
( e.g. , based on the application of Section 4.G or Section 4.H of this Plan), payment for the full cost of any COBRA continuation coverage shall be the sole responsibility of the eligible employee or the eligible employee s
surviving spouse or other dependent during the period of disruption or after termination of payroll deductions and any portion of Company premium contribution due under this Plan shall be reimbursed to the eligible employee or the eligible
employee s surviving spouse in a lump sum payment as soon as practicable.           
   -8-   

V.   
   T ERMINATION   OR  A MENDMENT   OF   THE  P LAN          Eligible employees do not have any vested right to severance pay under this Plan. The Plan is intended to be a continuing part of the Company s
benefits program. However, the Company retains the right to amend the Plan at any time in any and all respects, to terminate the Plan in its entirety, or to exclude participation by the employees of certain Employers, at the Company s sole
discretion and without prior consent of the participants. Any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall be effected by a written instrument signed by the Vice President of Human Resources of Danaher Corporation, without need of any resolution
of the Board of Directors of Danaher Corporation or any Employer.       

VI.   
   H OW   THE  P LAN   IS  A DMINISTERED          The Company is the  Plan Administrator  of the Plan and the  named fiduciary  within the meaning of such terms as defined in ERISA.
The Company has delegated the authority to decide initial claims for benefits under this Plan to the Company s Benefits Committee. The Company has delegated the authority to make final determinations on appeals of denied claims under this Plan
to the Corporate Vice President   Human Resources.      The Plan Administrator or its delegate shall have the discretionary authority to
determine eligibility for Plan benefits and to construe the terms of the Plan, including the making of factual determinations. Benefits under the Plan shall be payable only if the Plan Administrator or its delegate determines, in its sole
discretion, that an eligible employee is entitled to them. The decisions of the Plan Administrator or its delegate shall be final and conclusive with respect to all questions concerning the administration of the Plan. The Company may, in its sole
discretion, provide additional benefits to a Plan participant, or make available additional or other forms of severance pay or benefits.      The Plan Administrator may delegate to other persons responsibilities for performing certain of the duties of the Plan Administrator under the terms of the Plan and may seek expert advice as the Plan Administrator deems reasonably necessary
with respect to the Plan. The Plan Administrator shall be entitled to rely upon the information and advice furnished by such persons and experts, unless actually knowing such information and advice to be inaccurate or unlawful.       

VII.   
   H OW   TO  M AKE   OR  A PPEAL   A  C LAIM           

A.  
     Making a Claim for Severance Benefits  - Generally, eligible employees do not need to make a claim for benefits under the Plan to receive Plan benefits (other
than completing the Separation and General Release Agreement to obtain severance pay and benefits). However, if an employee believes he is entitled to  
          
   -9-   

benefits, or to greater benefits than are paid under the Plan, the employee may file a claim for benefits with the Company s Benefits Committee. The
Benefits Committee will either accept or deny the claim, and will notify the claimant of acceptance or denial of the claim within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the claim by the Benefits Committee.         For purposes of this section, a period of time will be deemed to be unreasonable if it exceeds 90 days after receipt of the claim by the Benefits
Committee unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. If such an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the
initial 90-day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of 90 days from the end of such initial period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Benefits
Committee expects to render a decision.      The Benefits Committee shall provide to every claimant who is denied a claim for benefits written
notice setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:       

(1)  
  the specific reason or reasons for the denial;         

(2)  
  specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based;         

(3)  
  a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary;

(4)  
  appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the claimant wishes to submit a claim for review; and         

(5)  
  a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following a denial of the claim on review.         

B.  
   Appealing a Denied Claim  - A claimant who does not agree with the decision of the Benefits Committee may appeal to the Corporate Vice President   Human Resources. A
claimant may:         

(1)  
  request a review upon written application;         

(2)  
  receive copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim upon request and free of charge (including items used in the determination, even if not relied
upon in making the final determination, and items demonstrating consistent application and compliance with this Plan s administrative processes and safeguards); and           
   -10-   

(3)  
  submit comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim, even if the information was not submitted or considered in the initial determination, in writing.
       The claimant must file any request for review of a denied claim within 60 days after receipt by the claimant of written
notification of denial of a claim.      A decision by the Corporate Vice President   Human Resources shall be made promptly, and shall not
ordinarily be made later than 60 days after the Corporate Vice President   Human Resources  receipt of a request for review unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision shall be
rendered as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after receipt of a request for review. If such an extension of time for review is required because of special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant
prior to the commencement of the extension.      The Corporate Vice President   Human Resources will notify the claimant of its decision in
writing. This notice will include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner to be understood by the claimant, as well as specific references to the pertinent plan provisions on which the decision is based. If the claim is denied, the
notice will also include a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, copies of all documents, records or other information relevant to the claim and a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil
action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.       

VIII.     
   O THER  P LAN  P ROVISIONS           

A.  
   No Assignment  - Severance pay payable under the Plan shall not be subject to alienation, pledge, sale, transfer, assignment, attachment, execution or encumbrance or any kind
and any attempt to do so shall be void, except as required by law.         

B.  
   Recovery of Payments Made By Mistake  - An eligible employee shall be required to return to the Employer any severance pay, or portion thereof, made by a mistake of fact or
law, or contrary to the terms of the Plan (for example, if an eligible employee receiving severance pay obtains new employment, but does not timely notify the Plan Administrator), and the Employer shall have all remedies available at law for the
recovery of such amounts.         

C.  
   No Representations Contrary to the Plan  - No supervisor, manager, employee, officer, or director of the Employer has the authority to alter, vary or modify the terms of the
Plan, other than through authorized written amendment as provided in Section V. No verbal or written representations contrary to the terms of the Plan and its written amendments shall be binding upon the Plan, the Plan Administrator or the Employer.

D.  
   Plan Funding  - No eligible employee shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right in or title to any assets, funds, or property of the Employer. Any severance pay benefits
which become payable under the Plan are unfunded obligations of the Employer and shall be paid from the general assets of the Employer. No employee, officer, director or agent of the Employer guarantees in any manner the payment of Plan severance
pay.           
   -11-   

E.  
   Severability  - If a provision of the Plan is found, held or deemed by the Plan Administrator or a court of competent jurisdiction to be void, unlawful or unenforceable under
any applicable statute or other controlling law, the provision shall be severed from the Plan and the remainder of the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.         

F.  
   Return of Employer Property  - Except as otherwise permitted by the Employer in writing, all Employer property (i.e., keys, credit cards, documents and records, identification
cards, computers and business equipment, car/mobile telephones, parking stickers, etc.) must be returned by an eligible employee as of his or her date of termination of employment from the Employer in order for the eligible employee to commence
receiving severance pay under the Plan.         

IX.   
   ERISA R IGHTS          Participants in the
Plan are entitled to certain rights and protection under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ). ERISA provides that all Plan participants shall be entitled to:       Receive Information About the Plan and Benefits        

Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator s office, all documents governing the Plan, and a copy of the latest annual report (Form 5500 Series) filed
by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.          

Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of documents governing the operation of the Plan, copies of the latest annual report (Form 5500
Series) and an updated summary plan description. The Plan Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.          

Receive a summary of the Plan s annual financial report (if any). The Plan Administrator may be required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of this
summary annual report.          Prudent Actions of Fiduciaries       In addition to creating rights for Plan participants, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the Plan. The people
who operate the Plan, called  fiduciaries  of the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of Plan participants and beneficiaries. No one, including the Employer or any other person, may fire or otherwise discriminate
against a Plan participant under the Plan or prevent the participant from obtaining a Plan benefit or exercising a right under ERISA.         
   -12-   

Enforcing Rights       If the claim for a Plan benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, a participant has a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any
denial, all within certain time schedules.      Under ERISA, there are steps a participant can take to enforce the above rights. For instance,
if the participant requests a copy of the Plan documents or the latest annual report from the Plan Administrator and does not receive them within 30 days, the participant may file suit in a federal court. In such case, the court may require the Plan
Administrator to provide the materials and pay the participant up to $110 a day until the participant receives the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator.      If the participant has a claim for benefits which is denied after exhaustion of the appeal process, or is ignored, in whole or in part, the participant
may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan s money, or if a participant is discriminated against for asserting the participant s rights, the participant may seek assistance from the
U.S. Department of Labor, or file suit in a federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If the participant is successful, the court may order the person the participant sued to pay these costs and fees. If the
participant loses, the court may order the participant to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds the claim is frivolous.       Assistance with Questions       If a participant has any questions about the Plan, the participant should contact the Plan
Administrator. If a participant has any questions about this statement or about rights under ERISA, or if needs assistance in obtaining documents from the Plan Administrator, the participant should contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits
Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in the telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20210. Participants may also obtain certain publications about participant rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.         
   -13-   

X.   
   G ENERAL  I NFORMATION           
       
   -14-   

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.16>
 12
 dex1016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.16

Exhibit 10.16 

Exhibit 10.16        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ( Agreement ) was initially entered into
as of the 18th day of July, 2000 (the  Effective Date ) and amended as of the last date set forth on the signature page hereto which amendment shall be effective as of January 1, 2009, by and between Danaher Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), and Henry Lawrence Culp, Jr. (the  Executive ).      WHEREAS, the Company desires to employ
the Executive, and the Executive desires to be employed by the Company, on the terms and conditions set forth herein.      NOW, THEREFORE, in
consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which hereby are acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      1.  Employment . On the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Company agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive agrees to be
employed by the Company, for the term set forth in Section 2 hereof and in the position and with the duties set forth in Section 3 hereof.      2.  Term . The employment of the Executive by the Company as provided in Section 1 hereof shall commence on the Effective Date and, unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth, shall end three
(3) years thereafter; provided that, unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth, the term of this Agreement shall be extended automatically for additional one (1) year periods on the second anniversary of the Effective Date and each
subsequent anniversary date (the  Applicable Anniversary Notice Date ), unless and until either party provides written notice to the other party not less than ninety (90) days prior to the Applicable Anniversary Notice Date that the
party is terminating this Agreement, which termination shall be effective as of the end of the initial term or extended term, as the case may be.      3.  Position and Duties . The Executive shall serve as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with duties and responsibilities as the board of directors of the Company (the  Board ) may from time to time
determine and assign to the Executive. The Executive agrees to serve without additional compensation, if elected or appointed thereto, as a director of the Company and any of its subsidiaries and in one or more executive offices of any of the
Company s subsidiaries, provided that the Executive is indemnified for serving in any and all director capacities on a basis no less favorable than is currently provided by the Company to any other director of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries. The Executive shall devote the Executive s best efforts and full business time to the performance of the Executive s duties and the advancement of the business and affairs of the Company.      4.  Place of Performance . In connection with the Executive s employment by the Company, the Executive shall be based at the principal
executive offices of the Company which the Company retains the right to change in its discretion or at such other place as the Company and the Executive mutually agree and subject to Section 9(c)(iv) hereof.   

5.  Compensation .      (a)  Base Salary . The Company shall pay to the Executive an annual base salary (the  Base Salary ) at the rate of $600,000
per year. The Base Salary shall be reviewed for increases no less frequently than annually on the same basis as such salary reviews are made with respect to other executive officers of the Company. If the Executive s Base Salary is increased,
the increased amount shall be the Base Salary for the remainder of the term of the Executive s employment hereunder. The Base Salary shall be payable biweekly or in such other installments as shall be consistent with the Company s payroll
procedures.      (b)  Annual Bonus . During 2009 and each succeeding calendar year of the term, the Executive shall have a
bonus opportunity of which the baseline annual bonus percentage shall be one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the Executive s Base Salary; provided that if the bonus program shall thereafter be revised, the Executive s overall
bonus opportunity shall be comparable; and further provided that the Executive s maximum bonus opportunity for extraordinary performance, expressed as a percentage of the product of the baseline annual bonus percentage and the Executive s
Base Salary, shall be not less favorable than that provided for the Executive on the Effective Date, or for the President and Chief Executive Officer, following any appointment to that office (the  Annual Bonus ). The amount of the Annual
Bonus shall be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board in its sole discretion, based upon the Company s achievement of pre-established, objective budgetary and other performance goals. For any year in which the Company has a
shareholder approved bonus plan meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, such bonus shall be determined by such committee in a manner that will permit the Annual Bonus payable to the Executive to be fully
deductible by the Company. The amount of each Annual Bonus shall be determined and paid not later than 15 days after the Company s earnings for the preceding fiscal year have been publicly announced.      (c)  Other Benefits . The Company shall maintain in full force and effect, and the Executive shall be entitled to participate in, all
of the employee benefit and fringe benefit plans and arrangements in effect on the date hereof in which executives of the Company participate or plans or arrangements providing the Executive with at least equivalent benefits thereunder (including,
without limitation, the Executive Deferred Incentive Program, and each group life insurance and accident plan, medical and dental insurance plans, and disability plan); provided, however, that, changes in such plans or arrangements may be made,
including termination of such plans or arrangements if it occurs pursuant to a program applicable to all executives of the Company and does not result in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights of or benefits to the Executive as compared
with any other executive of the Company. Nothing paid to the Executive under any fringe plan or arrangement presently in effect or made available in the future shall be deemed to be in lieu of the salary payable to the Executive pursuant to
Section 5(a). Any payments or benefits payable to the Executive under this Section 5(c) in respect of any calendar year during which the Executive is employed by the Company for less than the entire such year shall, unless otherwise
provided in the applicable plan or arrangement be pro-rated in accordance with the number of days in such calendar year during which he is so employed.         
   2   

(d)  Vacation; Holidays . The Executive shall be entitled to all public holidays
observed by the Company and vacation days in accordance with the applicable vacation policies in effect for senior executives of the Company, which shall be taken at a reasonable time or times.      (e)  Withholding Taxes and Other Deductions . To the extent required by law, the Company shall withhold from any payments due
Executive under this Agreement any applicable federal, state or local taxes and such other deductions as are prescribed by law or Company policy.      (f)  Club Memberships . During the term of the Executive s employment hereunder, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for the cost of maintaining annual membership during the term in his existing club
and the cost of joining and maintaining annual membership during the term in a club of his choosing located within the District of Columbia, or the suburban Maryland or Virginia area adjacent to the District of Columbia.      (g)  Tax and Financial Planning . During the term of the Executive s employment hereunder, the Company shall reimburse the
Executive for the reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in connection with obtaining professional tax and financial planning advice.      (h)  Annual Physical Examination . During the term of the Executive s employment hereunder, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for the reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in undergoing an
annual physical examination by a licensed physician.      (i)  Compensation During Disability . During any period that the
Executive fails to perform the Executive s duties hereunder as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness (the  Disability Period ), the Executive shall be treated as fully employed and shall continue to receive, or
receive the benefit of (as the case may be) all items described in Section 5 hereof at the rate then in effect for such period until his employment is terminated pursuant to Section 9(b)(i) hereof;  provided , that payments made to
the Executive during the first 180 days of the Disability Period shall be reduced by the sum of the amounts, if any, payable to the Executive at or prior to the time of any payment under disability benefit plans of the Company and which amounts were
not previously applied to reduce any payment.      6.  Expenses . During the term of the Executive s employment hereunder, the
Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable and customary expenses incurred by the Executive in performing services hereunder, including all expenses of travel and living expenses while away from home on business
or at the request of and in the service of the Company, provided that all such expenses are accounted for in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Company. The Company shall also provide the Executive during the term of his
employment hereunder with an automobile allowance of $2,000 per month.         
   3   

7.  Confidential Information .      (a) The Executive covenants and agrees that the Executive will not ever, without the prior written consent of the Board or a person
authorized by the Board or except as may be ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction, publish or disclose to any unaffiliated third party or use for the Executive s personal benefit or advantage any confidential information with respect to
the Company s past, present, or planned business, including but not limited to all information and materials related to any Company business, business plan, product, service, procedure, strategy, method (including the Danaher Business System),
technique, technology, research, strategy, plan, customer or supplier information, customer or supplier list, financial data, technical data, computer files, and computer software, including any of the foregoing that is in any stage of research,
development, or planning, and any other information which the Executive obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company or which the Executive may possess or have under his control, that is not generally known
(except for unauthorized disclosures) to the public or within the industry in which the Company does business. This covenant shall not limit the Executive s use of such confidential information in the normal course of his performance of
services for the Company.      (b) The Executive acknowledges that the restrictions contained in Section 7(a) hereof are
reasonable and necessary, in view of the nature of the Company s business, in order to protect the legitimate interests of the Company, and that any violation thereof would result in irreparable injury to the Company. Therefore, the Executive
agrees that in the event of a breach or threatened breach by the Executive of the provisions of Section 7(a) hereof, the Company shall be entitled to obtain from any court of competent jurisdiction, preliminary or permanent injunctive relief
restraining the Executive from disclosing or using any confidential information. Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies available to it for breach or threatened breach, including, without
limitation, recovery of damages from the Executive.      (c) The Executive shall deliver promptly to the Company on termination
of employment, or at any other time the Company may so request, all confidential materials, memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents and materials (and all copies thereof), in whatever form or medium, that contain any of the foregoing,
including but not limited to computer data, files, software, and hardware, relating to the Company s or its affiliates  respective businesses which the Executive obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the
Company or which the Executive may then possess or have under his control.      8.  Non-Competition .      (a)  Non-Competition . The Executive covenants and agrees that the Executive will not, during the Executive s employment
hereunder and for a period of three (3) years thereafter (to the extent permitted by law), at any time and in the United States or any other jurisdiction in which the Company is engaged or has reasonably firm plans to engage in business, enter
into any competitive endeavors and not undertake any commercial activity which is contrary to the best interests of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including becoming an employee, owner (except for passive investments of not more than
three percent (3%) of the outstanding shares of, or any other equity interest in, any company or entity listed or traded on a national securities exchange or in an over-the-counter securities market), officer, agent, advisor, consultant or
director of any firm or person which directly competes with a line or lines of business of the Company.         
   4   

(b)  Injunctive Relief . In the event the restrictions against engaging in a
competitive activity contained in Section 8(a) hereof shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of their extending for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical area or by reason
of their being too extensive in any other respect, Section 8(a) hereof shall be interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time for which it may be enforceable and over the maximum geographical area as to which it may be enforceable
and to the maximum extent in all other respects as to which it may be enforceable, all as determined by the court in the action.      (c)  Non-Solicitation . The Executive covenants and agrees that the Executive will not, during the Executive s employment hereunder and for a period of three (3) years thereafter solicit, induce, entice, or encourage or
attempt to solicit, induce, entice, or encourage any employee of the Company or any of the Company s affiliates to render services for any other person, firm, entity, or corporation or to terminate his or her employment with the Company.
     9.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  Death . The Executive s employment hereunder shall terminate upon the Executive s death.      (b)  By the Company . The Company may terminate the Executive s employment hereunder under the following circumstances:      (i) The Company may terminate the Executive s employment hereunder for  Disability.  For purposes of this Agreement, the
Company shall have the right to terminate the Executive s employment by reason of  Disability  if, as a result of the Executive s incapacity due to physical or mental illness, the Executive shall have been absent from his duties
hereunder on a full-time basis for the entire period of six (6) consecutive months, and within thirty (30) days after written notice of termination is given shall not have returned to the performance of his duties hereunder on a full-time
basis.      (ii) The Company may terminate the Executive s employment hereunder with or without  Cause.  For
purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean (A) the willful and continued failure by the Executive to substantially perform his duties hereunder (other than any such failure resulting from the Executive s incapacity due to
physical or mental illness or any such actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination, as defined in Section 9(e), by the Executive for Good Reason, as defined in Section 9(c)), after demand for substantial
performance is delivered by the Company that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes the Executive has not substantially performed his duties, which is not cured within thirty (30) days after notice of such failure has
been given to the Executive by the Company, (B) the willful engaging by the Executive in misconduct which is materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise (including, but not limited to, conduct that violates Section 8(a)
hereof), or (C) the Executive s conviction of any felony. For purposes of this paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on the Executive s part shall be considered  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done by him not in good
faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.         
   5   

(iii) The Company, in the sole discretion of the Board, may terminate the
Executive s employment hereunder at any time other than for Disability or Cause, for any reason or for no reason at all.      (c)  By the Executive . The Executive may terminate the Executive s employment hereunder at any time, with or without  Good Reason , provided that any termination for Good Reason shall in no event occur more than two
years following the initial existence of the condition alleged to constitute Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement,  Good Reason  shall mean any one or more of the following circumstances:      (i) A failure by the Company to comply with any material provision of this Agreement which has not been cured within thirty (30) days
after notice of such noncompliance has been given by the Executive to the Company, including, without limitation, any failure to appoint or continue the Executive to an office or position as required by this Agreement;      (ii) Any purported termination of the Executive s employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the
requirements of Section 9(e) hereof (and for purposes of this Agreement no such purported termination shall be effective);      (iii) The assignment to the Executive of any duties materially inconsistent with his status as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company or a material adverse alteration in the nature or status of his responsibilities in
connection with such positions;      (iv) Relocation of the Executive to a location which is not within Washington, the District
of Columbia, or the suburban Maryland or Virginia area adjacent to the District of Columbia, except for required travel on the Company s business to an extent substantially consistent with the Executive s business travel obligations;
     (v) The failure by the Company to continue in effect any compensation or benefit plan in which the Executive participated
as of the Effective Date and which is material to the Executive s aggregate compensation and benefits hereunder, unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such plan, or
the failure by the Company to continue the Executive s participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and the level of the
Executive s participation relative to other participants, as existed at the Effective Date;      (vi) If there is a Change
of Control, merger, acquisition or other similar affiliation with another entity (a  Corporate Event ) and the Executive does not continue as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the most senior resulting entity of the affiliated
group of which Company or the surviving entity is a member after the Corporate Event; or         
   6   

(vii) The failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to
assume and agree to perform this Agreement.      (d)  Change of Control . For the purpose of this Agreement, a  Change
of Control  shall mean any one or more of the following circumstances:      (i) The acquisition by any individual, entity
or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under
the Exchange Act) of the greater of (1) 30% or more of either (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (B) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding
voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities ) and (2) the lowest whole number percentage which is greater than the combined percentage of the
Outstanding Company Common Stock or the Outstanding Company Voting Securities owned by Steven and Mitchell Rales and affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of Steven and Mitchell Rales
(without duplication); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company shall not constitute a
Change of Control; or      (ii) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board )
cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved
by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though the individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any individual whose initial assumption of
office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
     (iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following a Business Combination, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company
Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to the Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power
of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from the Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of the
transaction owns the Company or all or substantially  
       
   7   

all of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately
prior to the Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; or      (iv) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.      (e)  Notice of Termination . Any termination of the Executive s employment by the Company or the Executive (other than pursuant to Section 9(a) hereof) shall be communicated by written  Notice of
Termination  to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 11 hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, a  Notice of Termination  shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement
relied upon, if any, and, if for  Cause  or for  Good Reason , shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive s employment under the provision so
indicated and must be given within ninety (90) days of the initial existence of the condition alleged to constitute Cause or Good Reason, as the case may be.      (f)  Date of Termination . For purposes of this Agreement, the  Date of Termination  shall mean (i) if the
Executive s employment is terminated by the Executive s death, the date of the Executive s death; (ii) if the Executive s employment is terminated pursuant to Section 9(b)(i) hereof, thirty (30) days after Notice
of Termination, provided that the Executive shall not have returned to the performance of the Executive s duties on a full-time basis during this 30-day period; (iii) if the Executive s employment is terminated pursuant to
Section 9(b)(ii) or 9(c) hereof, the date specified in the Notice of Termination; and (iv) if the Executive s employment is terminated for any other reason, the date on which Notice of Termination is given.      10.  Compensation Upon Termination .      (a) If the Executive terminates this Agreement by giving notice of termination pursuant to Section 2, or if the Executive s employment is terminated by the Executive s death, the Company shall pay or
provide the following amounts to the Executive or to the Executive s estate (or as may be directed by the legal representatives of the estate), as the case may be, except as otherwise provided by Section 10(e) hereof, not later than 14
days from the Date of Termination in the case of the payments referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below, not later than two and one-half months following the end of the calendar year in which the Date of Termination occurs in the
case of payments referred to in clause (iv) below, and, at the time when such payments are due in the case of the payments referred to in clause (v) below (the respective  Payment Due Dates ) and the Company shall have no further
obligations to the Executive under this Agreement:      (i) Base Salary through the Date of Termination;      (ii) the balance of any annual or long-term cash incentive awards (if any) earned (but not yet paid) pursuant to the terms of the
applicable programs;         
   8   

(iii) any deferred compensation (together with any accrued interest or earnings thereon)
including but not limited to deferred bonuses allocated or credited to the Executive or his account as of the Date of Termination, or date of payment, if later;      (iv) the product of (x) an amount equal to the average of the annual bonus awards paid to the Executive with respect to the three
years preceding the year of termination, but not to exceed two hundred and fifty percent (250%) of the Executive s Base Salary, times (y) the number of days in the calendar year of termination through the Date of Termination, divided
by 365; and      (v) to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or
provided as of the Date of Termination or which the Executive is eligible to receive at the Date of Termination in accordance with the terms of any plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated
companies, it being understood, however, that, unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this Agreement or in the other such plan, program, policy, practice or contract because of the nature of the termination, no amounts or benefits shall vest as a
result of the termination and employee benefits shall cease to accrue as of the Date of Termination.      For purposes of this Agreement, the
amounts listed in subsections (i) through (v) above shall be collectively referred to as the  Accrued Obligations.       (b) (i) Except as otherwise provided by Section 10(e) hereof, if the Company terminates the Executive s employment for Disability as provided in Section 9(b)(i) hereof, the Company shall pay or provide
the Executive all of the Accrued Obligations, on the respective Payment Due Dates, and the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive under this Agreement except as provided in clause (ii) below;  provided , that payments
made to the Executive during the Disability Period shall be reduced by the sum of the amounts, if any, payable to the Executive at or prior to the time of any payment under disability benefit plans of the Company, to the extent not previously
applied to reduce any payment.      (ii) The Company shall maintain in full force and effect, for the continued benefit of the
Executive for twelve months following the Date of Termination due to Disability, all employee welfare benefit plans and programs in which the Executive was entitled to participate immediately prior to the Date of Termination provided that the
Executive s continued participation is possible under the general terms and provisions of such plans and programs. In the event that the Executive s participation in any such plan or program is barred, the Company shall arrange to provide
the Executive with benefits substantially similar to those which the Executive would otherwise have been entitled to receive under such plans and programs from which his continued participation is barred.      (c) Except as otherwise provided by Section 10(e) hereof, if the Company terminates the Executive s employment for Cause as
provided in Section 9(b)(ii) hereof, or if the Executive terminates his employment without Good Reason, the Company shall pay or provide, on the respective Payment Due Dates, the Executive all of the Accrued Obligations, other than the payment
described in Section 10(a)(iv) hereof, and the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive under this Agreement.         
   9   

(d) Except as otherwise provided by Section 10(e) hereof, if the Company terminates
the Executive s employment other than for Cause or Disability or if the Executive terminates the Executive s employment for Good Reason as provided in Section 9(c) hereof, or if the Company terminates this Agreement by giving notice
of termination pursuant to Section 2, the Company shall pay or provide, on the respective Payment Due Dates or as otherwise provided below, and shall have no further obligations to the Executive:      (i) The Accrued Obligations;      (ii) An amount equal to the sum of (x) the Executive s Base Salary and (y) the average of the annual bonus awards paid to the Executive with respect to the three years preceding the year of termination
(but not to exceed two hundred and fifty percent (250%) of the Executive s Base Salary), in substantially equal proportionate installments in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices, commencing with the first payroll
period in the month following the month in which the Date of Termination occurs, for a period of two years;      (iii) The
Company shall pay all reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Executive as a result of such termination, including the reasonable fees and expenses of enforcing the terms of this Agreement, if the Executive establishes that he was
terminated without Cause or terminated his employment for Good Reason, or in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
 Code ) to any payment or benefit provided hereunder;      (iv) For two years after the Date of Termination, or any
longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy, the Company shall continue benefits to the Executive and the Executive s family at least equal to those which would have been provided to them
in accordance with the welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company and its affiliated companies (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life, group life, accidental
death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent applicable generally to other peer employees of the Company and its affiliated companies, as if the Executive s employment had not been terminated;  provided ,
 however , that if the Executive becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical or other welfare benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical and other welfare benefits described herein shall be
secondary to those provided under the other plan during the applicable period of eligibility; and      (v) To the extent not
theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or
contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies.         
   10   

(e) Other than Base Salary through the Date of Termination and the cost of participation
in employee welfare benefit plans and programs pursuant to Section 10(b)(ii) hereof to the extent excludable from the Executive s income, the aggregate amounts payable pursuant to Sections 10(a) (except in the case of termination because
of the Executive s death), 10(b), 10(c) and 10(d) hereof during the six-month period immediately following the Executive s termination of employment shall not exceed two hundred percent (200%) of the limit on annual compensation that
may be taken into account for qualified plan purposes under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for the year of his termination of employment; provided that, if the Executive dies following his termination of employment but prior to the six month
anniversary of the date thereof, then any payments previously delayed in accordance with this Section 10(e) will be payable in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable after the date of Executive s death and the limitations on
payments pursuant to this Section 10(e) shall cease to apply.      (f)  Excise Tax Restoration Payment . In the event
that it is determined that any payment or distribution of any type to or for the benefit of the Executive made by the Company, by any of its affiliates, by any person who acquires ownership or effective control or ownership of a substantial portion
of the Company s assets (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code) or by any affiliate of this person, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of an employment agreement or otherwise (the
 Total Payments ), would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties with respect to the excise tax (the excise tax, together with any interest or penalties, are collectively referred
to as the  Excise Tax ), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (an  Excise Tax Restoration Payment ) in an amount that shall fund the payment by the Executive of any Excise Tax on the Total
Payments as well as all income taxes imposed on the Excise Tax Restoration Payment, any Excise Tax imposed on the Excise Tax Restoration Payment and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to taxes on the Excise Tax Restoration or any Excise
Tax. The Excise Tax Restoration Payment shall be paid to the Executive no later than the time the Executive is required to pay the underlying excise and income taxes.      (g)  Mitigation . The Executive shall not be required to mitigate amounts payable pursuant to Section 10 hereof by seeking other
employment  provided, however , that the Company s obligation to continue to provide the Executive with fringe benefits pursuant to this Agreement above, shall cease if the Executive and his family become eligible to participate in fringe
benefits substantially similar to those provided for in this Agreement as a result of the Executive s employment during the period that the Executive and his family is entitled to these fringe benefits.      (h)  No Additional Payments . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Executive acknowledges and agrees that
in the event of the termination of his employment, even if in breach of this Agreement, he will be entitled only to those payments specified herein for the circumstances of his termination, and not to any other payments by way of damages or claims
of any nature, whether under this Agreement or under any other agreements between the Executive and the Company.         
   11   

11.  Notices . All notices, demands, requests or other communications required or permitted to be
given or made hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered, telecopied or mailed by first class registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       

(a)  
  If to the Company:        Danaher Corporation      2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW      Washington,
D.C. 20006      (202) 828-0850      Telecopy: (202) 828-0860      Attention: Secretary       

(b)  
  If to the Executive:        Henry Lawrence Culp, Jr.   
  c/o Danaher Corporation      2099 Pennsylvania
Avenue, NW      Washington, D.C. 20006      (202) 828-0850      Telecopy: (202) 828-0860      with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:      Andrew L. Oringer, Esq.      White   Case LLP      1155 Avenue of the
Americas      New York, NY 10036-2787      (212) 819-8561      Telecopy: (212) 354-8113      or to such other address as may be designated by either party in a notice to the other. Each notice, demand, request or other communication that shall be given or made in the manner described above shall be deemed
sufficiently given or made for all purposes three (3) days after it is deposited in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, or at such time as it is delivered to the addressee (with the return receipt, the delivery receipt, the answer back or the
affidavit of messenger being deemed conclusive evidence of delivery) or at such time as delivery is refused by the addressee upon presentation.      12.  Severability . The invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and
effect.      13.  Survival . It is the express intention and agreement of the parties hereto that the provisions of Sections 7 and 8
hereof shall survive the termination of employment of the Executive. In addition, all obligations of the Company to make payments hereunder shall survive any termination of this Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein.         
   12   

14.  Successors and Assigns .      (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the
Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive s legal representatives.      (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.      (c) The Company will require any successor to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or any party that
acquires control of the Company (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to
perform it if no succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement,  Company  shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this
Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.      15.  Resolution of Disputes . Any disputes arising under or in connection with this
Agreement shall, at the election of the Executive or the Company, be resolved by binding arbitration, to be held in Washington, D.C. in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association. Judgment upon the award
rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Each party shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with any arbitration or court proceeding (including fees and disbursements of counsel), subject to
Section 10(d)(iii) hereof.      16.  Legal Fees . The Company shall promptly pay the legal fees and expenses incurred by the
Executive in connection with negotiation and execution of this Agreement.      17.  Binding Effect . Subject to any provisions hereof
restricting assignment, this Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and shall inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective heirs, devisees, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.   
  18.  Amendment; Waiver . This Agreement shall not be amended, altered or modified except by an instrument in writing duly executed by the parties
hereto. Neither the waiver by either of the parties hereto of a breach of or a default under any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor the failure of either of the parties, on one or more occasions, to enforce any of the provisions of this
Agreement or to exercise any right or privilege hereunder, shall thereafter be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach or default of a similar nature, or as a waiver of any provisions, rights or privileges hereunder.      19.  Headings . Section and subsection headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only, shall not be deemed to
be a part of this Agreement for any purpose, and shall not in any way define or affect the meaning, construction or scope of any of the provisions hereof.         
   13   

20.  Governing Law . This Agreement, the rights and obligations of the parties hereto, and any
claims or disputes relating thereto, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (but not including the choice of law rules thereof).      21.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it
supersedes all prior oral or written agreements, commitments or understandings with respect to the matters provided for herein other than stock option agreements and certificates and the Company s employee benefit plans which are covered by the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.      22.  Section 409A Compliance . It is the intent of this Agreement to comply
with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code so that none of the severance and other payments and benefits to be provided hereunder will be subject to the additional tax imposed under Section 409A, and this Agreement shall be
interpreted accordingly. Executive s right to a series of installment payments under this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii). The foregoing
notwithstanding, the Company shall in no event whatsoever be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty incurred by the Executive as a result of the failure of any payment or benefit to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A.
     23.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which
shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have duly executed this Agreement, or have
caused this Agreement to be duly executed on their behalf, as of the day and year first hereinabove written.        

DANAHER CORPORATION    

By:  
     
  /s/ Steven M. Rales   

Name:  
     
  Steven M. Rales   

Title:  
     
  Chairman of the Board   
 
  Date of Execution: December 30, 2008   

THE EXECUTIVE:    

/s/ H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.   
 
  Henry Lawrence Culp, Jr.   
 
  Date of Execution: December 30, 2008   

14   

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.20>
 13
 dex1020.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.20

Exhibit 10.20 

Schedule A to      Exhibit 10.20      In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, each of the following named
executive officers has entered into a noncompetition agreement that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement listed as Exhibit 10.20, except as to the name of the executive, date of execution and governing law:
     Daniel L. Comas      Philip W. Knisely      James A. Lico      Thomas P. Joyce, Jr.   

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.22>
 14
 dex1022.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.22

Exhibit 10.22 

Exhibit 10.22         Danaher Corporation          Description of Non-Management Director Compensation Arrangements
       Following is a description of the compensation arrangements for each of the Company s non-management directors. For 2009, our
non-management directors receive:       

an annual cash retainer of $40,000, paid in four, equal installments following each quarter of service;          

$2,500 for each board meeting they attend (whether by telephone or in person);          

$1,000 for each committee meeting they attend (whether by telephone or in person);          

an annual grant of options to purchase 4,000 shares of Danaher common stock with a ten-year term, which grant is fully vested as of the date of grant; and

payment of or reimbursement for Danaher-related out-of-pocket expenses, including travel expenses.         In addition, the chair of each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee receives an annual retainer of $15,000, paid in
quarterly installments.      Each non-employee director can elect to defer all or a part of the cash director fees that he or she receives with
respect to a particular year under the Non-Employee Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan, which is a sub-plan under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Amounts deferred under the plan are converted into a particular number of phantom shares of
Danaher common stock, calculated based on the closing price on the quarterly date that such fees would otherwise have been paid. A director may elect to have his or her plan balance distributed upon cessation of Board service, or one, two, three,
four or five years after cessation of Board service. All distributions from the plan are in the form of shares of Danaher common stock.   

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.33>
 15
 dex1033.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.33

Exhibit 10.33 

Exhibit 10.33      

       DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES        AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS        Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly,
rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success. Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and
confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates. As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our
associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests. Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success.       I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates
(collectively the  Company ), and will learn and have access to the Company s confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships. I understand that the products and services that the Company
develops, provides and markets are unique. Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests.      I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company s customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information
regarding, among other things, the Company s employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential
and proprietary.      I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this
Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement. I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free
will without coercion from any source. I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company.      I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement.      In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am
expressly being given employment, continued employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits,
training and/or trade secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms
of this Agreement. In consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows:      1.   Protection of Confidential Information  .      a.  Definition of  Confidential Information .  The term  Confidential Information  shall mean the trade secrets and other
confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or
development of the Company or the Company s actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer
of the Company. Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company s express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of
confidentiality to the Company. Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business
relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists, pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data
(including but not limited to the  

revenues, costs, or profits, associated with any products or services), business and customer strategy, techniques, formulations, technical information,
technical know-how, formulae, production information, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings, invention methods, systems, information regarding all or any portion of the Danaher Business System, lease structure, processes, designs,
plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, personal or performance information about employees, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans, research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans
or proposals related to the foregoing.        b.  Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse . At all times during and after the
termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, I will not, without the Company s prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone
outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential. The confidentiality obligations herein shall not
prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent
disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity first to seek a protective order.         2.   Return of Property and Copying   I agree that all tangible materials (whether originals or duplicates), including but not limited to, notebooks, computers, files, reports, proposals, price lists, lists
of actual or potential customers or suppliers, talent lists, formulae, prototypes, tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies, research results, test results, financial data, contracts, agreements, correspondence,
documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession or control which in any way relate to the Company s business and which are furnished to me by or on behalf of the
Company or which are prepared, compiled or acquired by me while working with or employed by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company. I will at any time upon the request of the Company and in any event promptly upon termination of my
employment or relationship with the Company, but in any event no later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials to the Company and will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard
copy form or as computerized and/or electronic records. Except to the extent approved by the Company or required by my bona fide job duties for the Company, I also agree that I will not copy or remove from the Company s place of business or the
place of business of a customer of the Company, property or information belonging to the Company or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer. In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or
entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company.      3.   Assignment of Developments   I hereby
assign to the Company my entire right, title and interest in any idea, formula, invention, discovery, design, drawing, process, method, technique, device, improvement, computer program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data,
work of authorship, trade secret, copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent applications (all hereinafter called  Developments ), which I may solely or jointly
conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of
the Company, or which are suggested by or result from any task assigned to me or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company, whether or not such Developments are made, conceived, written or acquired during normal hours of work or using the
Company s facilities, and whether or not such Developments are patentable, copyrightable or susceptible to other forms of protection. The term  Developments  does not apply to any development for which no equipment, supplies,
facilities or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was used, and which was developed entirely on my own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or anticipated business of the Company; or (ii) to
the Company s actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the Development results from any work performed by me for the Company. I acknowledge and agree that any intellectual property right in any Developments and
related documentation, and work of authorship, which are created within the scope of my relationship with the Company, are owned solely by the Company.      4.
  Disclosure of Developments   I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company s policies and procedures in place from time to  
       
   2   

time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company s request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as
may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company s title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company s sole expense, to enable the Company
to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company. If the Company is unable, after
reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act
for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company s rights and title to the Developments.      5.   Identification of Developments and Third Party Obligations  .      (a) I have identified below all Developments in which
I have any right, title or interest, and which were made, conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the
Company. I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3.                                    (b) I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or
other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work. I agree to be bound by
all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements.      6.   Protection of Proprietary Interests  .      (a) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and
for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services
competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I
had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (b) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on
behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or
distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24
months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (c) I agree that during my employment or relationship
with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company),
manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any
position I  
       
   3   

held with the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company or in which I would have
responsibility for and access to confidential information similar or relevant to that which I had access to during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company in any geographic territory over which I had
Company responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (d) I agree
that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 24 months thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee
or independent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of the Company during the 6 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, who possesses or had access to
Confidential Information of the Company, to leave the employ of or terminate a relationship with the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such persons of their duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such
persons for the purposes described in Paragraph 6(d)(i) and (ii).      (e) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company,
and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, utilize or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer used by or served by
the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (f) I agree that
during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, interfere with or assist any third party in interfering
with, the relationship of the Company with any vendor utilized by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (g) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter I will not directly or indirectly, on
behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, participate in the planning, research or development of any products or services, competitive with products or services of the Company, excluding general industry knowledge, for which I had
product or service planning, research or development responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (h) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person,
company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would work with or support products or services competitive
with or similar to the products, services, or support offered by, performed by, developed by or created by me for the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (i) I agree that nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement. Further, I understand and agree that
during my employment or work relationship and the restricted time periods thereafter designated in this Agreement, while I may gather information to investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree that I shall not make plans or
prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement.      7.   Additional Payments (Applicable Only to
Employees).        (a)  Termination Payments.  As additional consideration for my obligations in this Agreement, the Company agrees
that if the Company terminates my employment with the Company  without cause  (as defined below), I shall be entitled to nine months base salary (excluding incentive compensation, bonus amounts, benefits and similar items) at the monthly
rate in effect at the time of my termination to be paid on the same schedule as if I were still an employee (the  Termination Payments ). The Company will reduce the amount of any Termination Payments for withholding and FICA taxes and any
other withholdings and contributions required by law. If the Company terminates me for  cause,  or if I terminate my employment for any reason, I shall not be entitled to any  
       
   4   

Termination Payments. I agree that a transfer of my employment by the Company to a successor, assign or another affiliate, subsidiary or business unit of the
Company shall in no event constitute a  termination  of any kind. Paragraph 7(a) shall not apply to me if I have an independent contractor or consulting relationship with the Company.      (1) For purposes of this Agreement, termination  without cause  shall mean that the Company terminates my employment for any reason, including
a reduction-in-force, other than for  cause.   Cause  shall include the following, to be determined in the reasonable judgment of the Company:      (i) my dishonesty, fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement, willful misconduct or gross negligence with respect to the Company, or any other action in willful disregard of the interests of the Company;      (ii) my conviction of, or pleading guilty or no contest to (1) a felony, (2) any misdemeanor (other than a traffic violation), or (3) any
other crime or activity that would impair my ability to perform duties or impair the business reputation of the Company;      (iii) my refusal
or willful failure to satisfactorily perform any duties assigned to me;      (iv) my failure or refusal to comply with Company standards,
policies or procedures, including without limitation the Company s Standards of Conduct as amended from time to time;      (v) material
misrepresentation or a breach of any of my representations, obligations or agreements under this Agreement;      (vi) my death; or   
  (vii) my incapacity due to physical or mental illness that results in absence from work on a full-time basis for twelve consecutive months.
     (b)  Severance Payment.  The Company agrees that if the Company terminates my employment  without cause  (as defined
above), I shall be entitled to severance pay of three months of my base salary (excluding incentive compensation, bonus amounts, benefits and similar items) at the monthly rate in effect on the date of my termination to be paid on the same schedule
as if I were still employed by the Company (the  Severance Payments ) provided I sign a release of all claims, including, but not limited to, those arising out of my employment and discontinuance of employment with the Company. Such
release must be executed at the time of termination, and will be in the format of the Company s standard release in effect at that time. (A copy of the current version is available from Human Resources for my review.) The Severance Payments
will commence upon completion of the Termination Payments provided for in Paragraph 7(a). The Company will reduce the amount of any Severance Payments for withholding and FICA taxes and any other withholdings and contributions required by law. I
agree that a transfer of my employment by the Company to a successor, assign or another affiliate, subsidiary or business unit of the Company shall in no event constitute a  termination  of any kind. Paragraph 7(b) shall not apply to me if
I have an independent contractor or consulting relationship with the Company.      (c)  Internal Revenue Code Section 409A
Requirements . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to me under this Agreement. For purposes of Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Section 409A ), each  payment  (as defined by Section 409A) made under this Agreement shall be considered a  separate payment.  In addition, for purposes of Section 409A,
payments shall be deemed exempt from the definition of deferred compensation under Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (1) the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and
(2) (with respect to amounts paid no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing my  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Section 409A)) the  two-years/two-times 
separation pay exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated by reference.      If I am a
 specified employee  as defined in Section 409A (and as applied according to Company procedures) as of my separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Agreement constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into
account any applicable exemptions from Section 409A), and to the extent required by Section 409A, no payments due under this Agreement may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day following the six-month anniversary of my
separation from service, or (ii) my date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following my
separation from service. If this  
       
   5   

Agreement fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A, the Company shall not have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on me by
Section 409A, and I shall have no recourse against the Company for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Section 409A.      8.
  Best Efforts  . I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, I will devote my best efforts to the performance of my duties and the advancement of the Company and shall not engage in any other employment, profitable
activities, or other pursuits which would cause me to disclose or utilize the Company s Confidential Information, or reflect adversely on the Company. This obligation shall include, but is not limited to, obtaining the Company s consent
prior to performing tasks for customers of the Company outside of my customary duties for the Company, giving speeches or writing articles, blogs, or posts, about the business of the Company, improperly using the name of the Company or identifying
my association or position with the Company in a manner that reflects unfavorably upon the Company. I further agree that I will not use, incorporate, or otherwise create any business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly
similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business.      9.
  Certification  . I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions
made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use. Furthermore, by executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully
performing my duties for the Company. I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, the Company may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and
that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers.      10.   Injunctive Relief and Attorney s Fees  . In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will face irreparable injury which would
be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequate remedy, I agree that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary
restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining such breach or threatened breach. Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company
shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney s fees, litigation expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me.      11.   Amendment, Waiver, Severability and Merger  . Except as set forth in Paragraph 13 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends
(to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company. No
waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement. The
provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company,
if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties. I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this
Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law. Further, I acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein. The terms of this Agreement shall
not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me. The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement.
     12.   At-Will Employment Status  . I acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a
guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time. I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless
otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require the Company to continue my employment, relationship or  
       
   6   

compensation for any particular length of time. I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the
Company and I each have the right to terminate the employment relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures. If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to
otherwise in writing by the Company and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures. I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge,
skills and abilities are sufficient to enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement.      13.   Acknowledgment of Obligations  . I acknowledge that my obligations under this Agreement are in addition to, and do not limit, any and all obligations concerning the same subject matter arising under
any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets.      14.
  Obligations Survive Termination  . I acknowledge and agree that the restrictions and covenants set forth in this Agreement shall be binding upon me and survive termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of
the reason(s) for such termination. I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is seeking to protect with this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not interfere with the
interests of the public.      15.   Cooperation  . I agree to cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party
claim in which the Company may have an interest subject to reasonable limitations concerning time and place, which may include without limitation making myself available to participate in any proceeding involving the Company, allowing myself to be
interviewed by representatives of the Company, appearing for depositions and testimony without requiring a subpoena, and producing and/or providing any documents or names of other persons with relevant information; provided that, if such services
are required after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and
specific request of the Company.      16.   Non-Disparagement  . I agree that during and after my employment or relationship with the Company ends
for any reason, I will not make any false, disparaging or derogatory statement(s) to any media outlet, industry group, financial institution, current or former employee, consultant, client or customer of the Company, or any other entity or person,
which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors. I further agree that I will not take any action that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors
embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in disrepute.      17.
  Assignment and Transfer of Employment or Relationship  . The rights and/or obligations herein may only be assigned by the Company, may be done without my consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and
assigns. If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this Agreement shall remain binding upon me. Notwithstanding the language in this
Paragraph 17, in connection with and as a condition of any assignment or transfer of my employment or relationship the Company, a successor, or assignee of the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and require me to sign a new
Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests.      18.   Change of Position  . I acknowledge and agree that any change
in my position or title with the Company shall not cause this Agreement to terminate and shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement.      19.   Acceptance  . I agree that this Agreement is accepted by me through my original or facsimile signature. I further agree that the Company is deemed to have accepted this Agreement as evidenced by my employment or relationship
with the Company, the payment of wages or monies to me, the provision of benefits to me, or by executing this Agreement.         
   7   

20.   Binding Effect  . This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my
successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns.      21.   Third Party
Beneficiaries .  This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and
may be enforced by any such entity. I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company.
     Agreed to by:       

Danaher Corporation   

By:  

Associate Signature  

Associate s Printed Name  

Print Name and Title   

Date:  

Date:  

8   

Schedule A to      Exhibit 10.33      In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, each of the following named
executive officers will enter into a Proprietary Interest Agreement that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement listed as Exhibit 10.33, except as to the name of the executive, date of execution and governing
law:      Daniel L. Comas      Philip W. Knisely      James A. Lico      Thomas P. Joyce, Jr.   

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 16
 dex1034.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.34

Exhibit 10.34 

Exhibit 10.34      

       DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES        AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS        Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly,
rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success. Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and
confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates. As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our
associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests. Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success.       I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates
(collectively the  Company ), and will learn and have access to the Company s confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships. I understand that the products and services that the Company
develops, provides and markets are unique. Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests.      I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company s customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information
regarding, among other things, the Company s employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential
and proprietary.      I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this
Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement. I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free
will without coercion from any source. I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company.      I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement.      In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am
expressly being given employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits, training and/or trade
secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms of this Agreement. In
consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows:      1.   Protection of Confidential Information  .      a.  Definition of  Confidential Information  . The term  Confidential Information  shall mean the trade secrets and other
confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or
development of the Company or the Company s actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer
of the Company. Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company s express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of
confidentiality to the Company. Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business
relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists, pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data
(including but not limited to the  

revenues, costs, or profits, associated with any products or services), business and customer strategy, techniques, formulations, technical information,
technical know-how, formulae, production information, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings, invention methods, systems, information regarding all or any portion of the Danaher Business System, lease structure, processes, designs,
plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, personal or performance information about employees, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans, research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans
or proposals related to the foregoing.        b.  Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse . At all times during and after the
termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, I will not, without the Company s prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone
outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential. The confidentiality obligations herein shall not
prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent
disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity first to seek a protective order.         2.   Return of Property and Copying   I agree that all tangible materials (whether originals or duplicates), including but not limited to, notebooks, computers, files, reports, proposals, price lists, lists
of actual or potential customers or suppliers, talent lists, formulae, prototypes, tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies, research results, test results, financial data, contracts, agreements, correspondence,
documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession or control which in any way relate to the Company s business and which are furnished to me by or on behalf of the
Company or which are prepared, compiled or acquired by me while working with or employed by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company. I will at any time upon the request of the Company and in any event promptly upon termination of my
employment or relationship with the Company, but in any event no later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials to the Company and will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard
copy form or as computerized and/or electronic records. Except to the extent approved by the Company or required by my bona fide job duties for the Company, I also agree that I will not copy or remove from the Company s place of business or the
place of business of a customer of the Company, property or information belonging to the Company or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer. In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or
entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company.      3.   Assignment of Developments   I hereby
assign to the Company my entire right, title and interest in any idea, formula, invention, discovery, design, drawing, process, method, technique, device, improvement, computer program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data,
work of authorship, trade secret, copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent applications (all hereinafter called  Developments ), which I may solely or jointly
conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of
the Company, or which are suggested by or result from any task assigned to me or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company, whether or not such Developments are made, conceived, written or acquired during normal hours of work or using the
Company s facilities, and whether or not such Developments are patentable, copyrightable or susceptible to other forms of protection. The term  Developments  does not apply to any development for which no equipment, supplies,
facilities or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was used, and which was developed entirely on my own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or anticipated business of the Company; or (ii) to
the Company s actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the Development results from any work performed by me for the Company. I acknowledge and agree that any intellectual property right in any Developments and
related documentation, and work of authorship, which are created within the scope of my relationship with the Company, are owned solely by the Company.      4.
  Disclosure of Developments   I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company s policies and procedures in place from time to  
       
   2   

time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company s request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as
may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company s title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company s sole expense, to enable the Company
to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company. If the Company is unable, after
reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act
for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company s rights and title to the Developments.      5.   Identification of Developments and Third Party Obligations  .      (a) I have identified below all Developments in which
I have any right, title or interest, and which were made, conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the
Company. I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3.                                    (b) I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or
other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work. I agree to be bound by
all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements.      6.   Protection of Proprietary Interests  .      (a) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and
for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services
competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I
had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (b) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on
behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or
distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24
months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (c) I agree that during my employment or relationship
with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company),
manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any
position I  
       
   3   

held with the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company or in which I would have
responsibility for and access to confidential information similar or relevant to that which I had access to during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company in any geographic territory over which I had
Company responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (d) I agree
that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 24 months thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) solicit, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee or
independent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of the Company during the 6 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, who possesses or had access to
Confidential Information of the Company, to leave the employ of or terminate a relationship with the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such persons of their duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such
persons for the purposes described in Paragraph 6(b)(i) and (ii).      (e) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company,
and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, utilize or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer used by or served by
the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (f) I agree that
during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, interfere with or assist any third party in interfering
with, the relationship of the Company with any vendor utilized by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (g) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter I will not directly or indirectly, on
behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, participate in the planning, research or development of any products or services, competitive with products or services of the Company, excluding general industry knowledge, for which I had
product or service planning, research or development responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (h) I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person,
company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would work with or support products or services competitive
with or similar to the products, services, or support offered by, performed by, developed by or created by me for the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.      (i) I agree that nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement. Further, I understand and agree that
during my employment or work relationship and the restricted time periods thereafter designated in this Agreement, while I may gather information to investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree that I shall not make plans or
prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement.      7.   Best Efforts  . I agree that during my
employment or relationship with the Company, I will devote my best efforts to the performance of my duties and the advancement of the Company and shall not engage in any other employment, profitable activities, or other pursuits which would cause me
to disclose or utilize the Company s Confidential Information, or reflect adversely on the Company. This obligation shall include, but is not limited to, obtaining the Company s consent prior to performing tasks for customers of the
Company outside of my customary duties for the Company, giving speeches or writing articles, blogs, or posts, about the business of the Company, improperly using the name of the Company or identifying my association or position with the Company in a
manner that reflects unfavorably upon the Company. I further agree that I will not use, incorporate, or otherwise create any business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the
name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business.         
   4   

8.   Certification  . I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any
confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use. Furthermore, by
executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully performing my duties for the Company. I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company
terminates, the Company may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I
shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers.      9.   Injunctive Relief and Attorney s Fees  . In the event of a
breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will face irreparable injury which would be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequate remedy, I agree that
the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining
such breach or threatened breach. Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney s fees, litigation
expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me.      10.   Amendment, Waiver, Severability and Merger  . Except as
set forth in Paragraph 12 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends (to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by
or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company. I agree that by executing this Agreement I am no longer entitled to any Severance Payments or Termination
Payments I may have been entitled to under a prior competition, solicitation and/or proprietary interest agreement with the Company. No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing
and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be
unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be
enforceable and binding on the parties. I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law. Further, I
acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein. The terms of this Agreement shall not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me. The
paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement.      11.
  At-Will Employment Status  . I acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time. I acknowledge and agree that
this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require
the Company to continue my employment, relationship or compensation for any particular length of time. I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the Company and I each have the right to
terminate the employment relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures. If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to otherwise in writing by the Company
and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures. I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge, skills and abilities are sufficient to
enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement.         
   5   

12.   Acknowledgment of Obligations.   I acknowledge that my obligations under this Agreement are in addition
to, and do not limit, any and all obligations concerning the same subject matter arising under any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets.      13.   Obligations Survive Termination.   I acknowledge and agree that the restrictions and covenants set forth in this Agreement shall be binding upon me and
survive termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of the reason(s) for such termination. I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is seeking to protect with
this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not interfere with the interests of the public.      14.   Cooperation.   I agree to
cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party claim in which the Company may have an interest subject to reasonable limitations concerning time and place, which may include without limitation making myself
available to participate in any proceeding involving the Company, allowing myself to be interviewed by representatives of the Company, appearing for depositions and testimony without requiring a subpoena, and producing and/or providing any documents
or names of other persons with relevant information; provided that, if such services are required after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in
such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and specific request of the Company.      15.   Non-Disparagement.   I
agree that during and after my employment or relationship with the Company ends for any reason, I will not make any false, disparaging or derogatory statement(s) to any media outlet, industry group, financial institution, current or former employee,
consultant, client or customer of the Company, or any other entity or person, which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors. I further agree that I will not take any action
that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in disrepute.      16.   Assignment and Transfer of Employment or Relationship  . The rights and/or obligations herein may only be assigned by the Company, may be done without my
consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns. If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this
Agreement shall remain binding upon me. Notwithstanding the language in this Paragraph 16, in connection with and as a condition of any assignment or transfer of my employment or relationship the Company, a successor, or assignee of the Company
shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and require me to sign a new Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests.      17.   Change of Position  . I acknowledge and agree that any change in my position or title with the Company shall not cause this Agreement to terminate and shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement.
     18.   Acceptance  . I agree that this Agreement is accepted by me through my original or facsimile signature. I further agree that the Company
is deemed to have accepted this Agreement as evidenced by my employment or relationship with the Company, the payment of wages or monies to me, the provision of benefits to me, or by executing this Agreement.      19.   Binding Effect  . This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and
shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns.         
   6   

20.   Third Party Beneficiaries .  This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate
or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and may be enforced by any such entity. I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to
the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company.      Agreed to by:

Danaher Corporation   

By:  

Associate Signature  

Associate s Printed Name  

Print Name and Title   

Date:  

Date:  

7   

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 17
 dex1035.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.35

Exhibit 10.35 

Exhibit 10.35       INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT      This Agreement is made as of the
               day of                200      , by and between Danaher Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the  Corporation), and                        (the  Indemnitee ), a director or officer of the Corporation.
     WHEREAS, it is essential to the Corporation to retain and attract as directors and officers the most capable persons available; and
     WHEREAS, the Corporation and Indemnitee recognize the continued difficulty in obtaining appropriate liability insurance coverage for the
Corporation s directors and officers in light of the significant and continual increases in the cost of such insurance and the general trend of insurance companies to reduce the scope of coverage of such insurance; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation and Indemnitee further recognize the increase in corporate litigation in general, subjecting directors and officers to expensive
litigation risks at the same time as the availability, cost and scope of coverage of liability insurance provide increasing challenges to the Corporation; and      WHEREAS, it is now and has always been the express policy of the Corporation to indemnify its directors and officers; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation desires the Indemnitee to serve, or continue to serve, as a director or officer of the Corporation.      NOW THEREFORE, the Corporation and the Indemnitee do hereby agree as follows:      1.  Agreement to Serve .
The Indemnitee agrees to serve or continue to serve as a director or officer of the Corporation for so long as the Indemnitee is duly elected or appointed or until the effective date of Indemnitee s resignation, if earlier.      2.  Definitions . As used in this Agreement:      (a) The term  Change in Control  shall mean the earliest to occur after the date of this Agreement of any one of the following:      (i) any Person (as defined below) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner (as defined below), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the
Corporation s then outstanding securities;      (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior
to the execution of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ), and any new director (other than (x) any director designated by a person who has
entered into an agreement with the Corporation to effect a transaction described in Sections 2(a)(i), 2(a)(iii), 2(a)(iv) or 2(a)(v), and (y) any director whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened  

election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a
Person) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Corporation s stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or
whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a least a majority of the members of the Board;      (iii) the effective date of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other entity, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Corporation outstanding
immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of
the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and with the power to elect at least a majority of the board of directors or other governing body of such surviving entity;      (iv) the effective date of the sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets; and      (v) the approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.      For purposes of this Section 2(a), the following terms shall have the following meanings:      (A)  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      (B)  Person  shall have the meaning as set forth in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act; provided, however, that Person shall exclude
(i) the Corporation, (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Corporation, (iii) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Corporation in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Corporation, and (iv) Steven Rales, Mitchell Rales and their respective controlled affiliates.      (C)  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning given to such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; provided, however, that Beneficial Owner shall exclude any Person otherwise becoming a Beneficial Owner
by reason of the stockholders of the Corporation approving a merger of the Corporation with another entity.      (b) The term  Corporate
Status  shall mean the status of a person who is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, fiduciary,
partner, trustee, member or employee of, or in a similar capacity with, any Enterprise.      (c) The term  Enterprise  shall mean the
Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the Corporation as a
director, officer, fiduciary, partner, trustee, member or employee, or in any similar capacity.         
   2   

(d) The term  Expenses  shall include, without limitation, attorneys  fees, retainers,
court costs, transcript costs, fees and expenses of experts, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees and other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in
connection with investigations, judicial or administrative proceedings or appeals, but shall not include the amount of judgments, fines or penalties against Indemnitee or amounts paid in settlement.      (e) References to  fines  shall include any excise tax assessed with respect to any employee benefit plan; references to  serving at the
request of the Corporation  shall include any service as a director, officer, fiduciary, partner, trustee, member or employee of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such person with respect to an employee benefit
plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in
a manner  not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation  as referred to in this Agreement.      (f) The term  Independent
Counsel  shall mean a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither currently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Corporation or the Indemnitee in any
matter material to either such party or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term  Independent Counsel  shall not include any person who, under
the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee s rights under this Agreement. The Corporation
agrees to fully indemnify the Independent Counsel against any and all Expenses, claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.      (g) The term  Proceeding  shall include any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution
proceeding, administrative hearing or other proceeding, whether brought by or in the right of the Corporation or otherwise and whether of a civil, criminal, administrative or investigative nature, and any appeal therefrom.      3.  Indemnity of Indemnitee . Subject to Sections 6, 7 and 9, the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding as to
which the Indemnitee is, was or is threatened to be made a party (or is otherwise involved) by reason of the Indemnitee s Corporate Status, to the fullest extent permitted by law (as such may be amended from time to time). In furtherance of the
foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof:      (a)  Indemnification in Third-Party Proceedings . The Corporation shall
indemnify the Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3(a) if the Indemnitee was or is a party to or is threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding (other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to
procure a judgment in its favor or a Proceeding referred to in Section 6 below) by reason of the Indemnitee s Corporate Status or by  
       
   3   

reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in connection therewith, against all Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in
settlement actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best
interests of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.      (b)  Indemnification in Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation . The Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3(b) if the Indemnitee was or is a party to or threatened
to be made a party to any Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor (other than a Proceeding referred to in Section 6 below) by reason of the Indemnitee s Corporate Status or by reason of any
action alleged to have been taken or omitted in connection therewith, against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with the defense or settlement of such Proceeding, if the Indemnitee acted in
good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, except that, if applicable law so requires, no indemnification shall be made under this Section 3(b) in
respect of any claim, issue, or matter as to which the Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation, unless, and only to the extent, that the Court of Chancery of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought
shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of such liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, the Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such Expenses as the Court of Chancery or such
other court shall deem proper.      4.  Indemnification of Expenses of Successful Party . Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, to the extent that the Indemnitee has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in defense of any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein (other than a Proceeding referred to in Section 6), the Indemnitee
shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection therewith. For purposes of this Section and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a
Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.      5.
 Indemnification for Expenses of a Witness . To the extent that the Indemnitee is, by reason of the Indemnitee s Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding to which the Indemnitee is not a party, the Indemnitee shall be indemnified
against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection therewith.      6.  Exceptions to Right
of Indemnification . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Corporation shall not indemnify the Indemnitee under this Agreement:      (a) in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by the Indemnitee unless the initiation thereof was (i) approved by the Board, or (ii) in connection with successfully establishing
Indemnitee s right to indemnification or advancement of Expenses under this Agreement; or         
   4   

(b) to the extent the Indemnitee is reimbursed from the proceeds of insurance, and in the event the
Corporation makes any indemnification payments to the Indemnitee and the Indemnitee is subsequently reimbursed from the proceeds of insurance, the Indemnitee shall promptly refund such indemnification payments to the Corporation to the extent of
such insurance reimbursement.      7.  Notification and Defense of Claim .      (a) The Indemnitee shall notify the Corporation in writing as soon as practicable of any Proceeding for which indemnity will or could be sought and
provide the Corporation with a copy of any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to such Proceeding with which Indemnitee is served. The failure to so notify the Corporation will not relieve the
Corporation from any liability that it may have to Indemnitee except to the extent the failure adversely affects the Corporation s rights, legal position, ability to defend or ability to obtain insurance coverage with respect to such
proceeding. The Corporation will be entitled to participate in any such Proceeding at its own expense. Indemnitee shall have the right to engage Indemnitee s own counsel in connection with such Proceeding. Indemnitee s counsel shall
cooperate reasonably with the Corporation s counsel to minimize the cost of defending claims against the Corporation and Indemnitee.      (b) The Corporation shall not be required to indemnify the Indemnitee under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of any Proceeding effected without its written consent. The Corporation shall not settle any Proceeding in any
manner that would impose any penalty or limitation on the Indemnitee without the Indemnitee s written consent. Neither the Corporation nor the Indemnitee will unreasonably withhold or delay their consent to any proposed settlement.   
  8.  Advancement of Expenses . Subject to the provisions of Section 9, any Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the
Indemnitee in connection with a Proceeding for which indemnity could be sought under this Agreement shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding;  provided ,  however , that the payment of such
Expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay all amounts so advanced in the event that it
shall ultimately be determined, after the conclusion of such Proceeding, that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Agreement. Such undertaking shall be accepted without reference to the financial
ability of the Indemnitee to make repayment. Any advances and undertakings to repay pursuant to this Section 8 shall be unsecured and interest-free. This Section 8 shall not apply to any claim made by Indemnitee for which indemnity is
excluded pursuant to Section 6.      9.  Procedures .      (a) In order to obtain indemnification or advancement of Expenses pursuant to this Agreement, the Indemnitee shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including in such request such documentation and
information as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to  
       
   5   

indemnification or advancement of Expenses. Any such indemnification or advancement of Expenses shall be made promptly, and in any event within (i) in
the case of indemnification under Sections 4, 5, 8 or 9(f), 30 calendar days after receipt by the Corporation of the written request of the Indemnitee, or (ii) in the case of all other indemnification, 60 calendar days after receipt by the
Corporation of the written request of the Indemnitee, subject to the provisions of Sections 9(b) below.      (b) With respect to requests for
indemnification under Section 3, indemnification shall be made unless the Corporation determines that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 3. Any determination as to whether Indemnitee has met the
applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 3, and any determination that advanced Expenses must be subsequently repaid to the Corporation, shall be made, in the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (1) by a
majority vote of the directors of the Corporation consisting of persons who are not at that time parties to the Proceeding ( disinterested directors ), whether or not a quorum, (2) by a committee of disinterested directors designated
by a majority vote of disinterested directors, whether or not a quorum, (3) if there are no disinterested directors, or if the disinterested directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, or (4) by the
stockholders of the Corporation. Any such determination with respect to requests under Section 3 shall be made within the 60-day period referred to in clause (ii) of Section 9(a) (unless extended by mutual agreement by the Corporation
and Indemnitee).      (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Agreement, if a request for indemnification is made after
a Change in Control, any determination required to be made pursuant to Section 9(b) above as to whether the Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct or is required to repay advanced Expenses shall be made by Independent Counsel
selected as provided in this Section 9(c). The Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Indemnitee, unless the Indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The party making the
determination shall give written notice to the other party advising it of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected. The party receiving such notice may, within seven days after such written notice of selection shall have been given,
deliver to the other party a written objection to such selection. Such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of  Independent Counsel  as defined in
Section 2, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel. If a written objection is made, the Independent
Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until a court has determined that such objection is without merit. If, within 20 days after submission by the Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification, no Independent
Counsel shall have been selected or if selected, shall have been objected to, in accordance with this paragraph either the Corporation or the Indemnitee may petition the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or other court of competent
jurisdiction for resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Corporation or the Indemnitee to the other s selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court or
by such other person as the court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom an objection is favorably resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel. The Corporation shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of
Independent Counsel incurred in  
       
   6   

connection with its acting in such capacity. The Corporation shall pay any and all reasonable and necessary fees and expenses incident to the procedures of
this paragraph, regardless of the manner in which such Independent Counsel was selected or appointed.      (d) The termination of any
Proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner that the Indemnitee reasonably
believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.      (e) For purposes of any determination under this Section 9, to the extent permitted by law Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith
and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful, if his action is
based on the records or books of account of the Enterprise, or on information supplied to him by the officers of the Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Enterprise or on information or records given or
reports made to the Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Enterprise. The provisions of this Section 9(e) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit
in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.      (f) The Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making such determination with respect to the Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable
advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any Expenses actually and reasonably
incurred by the Indemnitee in so cooperating shall be borne by the Corporation (irrespective of the determination as to the Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification) and the Corporation hereby indemnifies the Indemnitee therefrom.
     10.  Remedies . The right to indemnification or advancement of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall be enforceable by the
Indemnitee in any court of competent jurisdiction. In connection with any determination as to whether the Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified under this Agreement, the court shall presume that the Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of
conduct and is entitled to indemnification, and, unless otherwise required by law, the burden of proof shall be on the Corporation to establish by clear and convincing evidence that the Indemnitee is not so entitled. Neither the failure of the Board
of Directors (or other person or body appointed pursuant to Section 9) to have made a determination that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination
pursuant to Section 9 that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to an action brought to enforce this Agreement or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct. The
Indemnitee s Expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with successfully establishing the Indemnitee s right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such Proceeding shall also be indemnified by the Corporation.
        
   7   

11.  Partial Indemnification . If the Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement
to indemnification by the Corporation for some or a portion of the Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding but not,
however, for the total amount thereof, the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee for the portion of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties or amounts paid in settlement to which the Indemnitee is entitled.      12.  Contribution . To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to
Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Corporation, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by Indemnitee, whether for judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and/or
for Expenses, in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (i) the relative
benefits received by the Corporation and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding; and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Corporation (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and
Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).      13.  Acknowledgment of certain matters . Indemnitee understands
and acknowledges that the Corporation has undertaken or may be required in the future to undertake, by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to submit the question of indemnification to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the
Corporation s right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee.      14.  Subrogation . In the event of any payment under this
Agreement, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such
documents as are necessary to enable the Corporation to bring suit to enforce such rights.      15.  Term of Agreement . This Agreement
shall continue until and terminate upon the later of (a) ten years after the date that the Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve as a director or officer of the Corporation or, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer,
fiduciary, partner, trustee, member or employee of any Enterprise or (b) the final termination of all Proceedings pending on the date set forth in clause (a) in respect of which the Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or
advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by the Indemnitee pursuant to Section 10 of this Agreement relating thereto.      16.  Indemnification Hereunder Not Exclusive . The indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which the Indemnitee may be entitled under the Certification
of Incorporation, the By-Laws, any other agreement, any vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, the General Corporation Law of Delaware, any other law (common or statutory), or otherwise, both as to action in the Indemnitee s official
capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office for the Corporation. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to prohibit the Corporation  
       
   8   

from purchasing and maintaining insurance, at its expense, to protect itself or the Indemnitee against any expense, liability or loss incurred by it or the
Indemnitee in any such capacity, or arising out of the Indemnitee s status as such, whether or not the Indemnitee would be indemnified against such expense, liability or loss under this Agreement.      17.  No Special Rights . Nothing herein shall confer upon the Indemnitee any right to continue to serve as an officer or director of the Corporation
for any period of time or at any particular rate of compensation.      18.  Savings Clause . If any provision or provisions of this
Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation, each portion of any Section of
this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent
permitted by law; (b) such provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible,
the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be
construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.      19.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall constitute the original.      20.  Successors and Assigns . This Agreement shall be binding upon the
Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors, administrators and personal representatives of the Indemnitee. The Corporation shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or
indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all, substantially all or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the Corporation expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same
extent that the Corporation would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.      21.  Headings . The headings of the
paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.      22.  Modification and Waiver . This Agreement may be amended from time to time to reflect changes in Delaware law or for other reasons. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding
unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof nor shall any such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
     23.  Notices . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been
given (i) when delivered by hand or (ii) if mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third day after the date on which it is so mailed:      (a) if to the Indemnitee, to such address as Indemnitee has most recently furnished to the Company.         
   9   

(b) if to the Corporation, to:      Danaher Corporation      2099 Pennsylvania
Avenue, N.W.      12   th    Floor      Washington, D.C. 20006      Attention: General Counsel      or to such other address as may
have been furnished to the Indemnitee by the Corporation.      24.  Applicable Law . This Agreement and the legal relations among the
parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws rules. The Corporation and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agree that
any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in the Delaware Court, and not in any other state or federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country,
(ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, (iii) appoint, to the extent such party is not otherwise subject to
service of process in the State of Delaware, The Corporation Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware as its agent in the State of Delaware as such party s agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such action or proceeding
against such party with the same legal force and validity as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware, (iv) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the Delaware Court, and
(v) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.      25.  Enforcement . The Corporation expressly confirms and agrees that it has entered into this Agreement in order to induce the Indemnitee to
continue to serve as an officer or director of the Corporation, and acknowledges that the Indemnitee is relying upon this Agreement in continuing in such capacity.      26.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and supercedes all prior agreements, whether oral or written, by any
officer, employee or representative of any party hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein; and any prior agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein is hereby terminated and cancelled. For
avoidance of doubt, the parties confirm that the foregoing does not apply to or limit the Indemnitee s rights under Delaware law or the Corporation s Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws.         
   10   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above
written.        

DANAHER CORPORATION   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

INDEMNITEE:   

11   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-12.1>
 18
 dex121.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

Exhibit 12.1 

Exhibit 12.1        DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED
CHARGES        ($ IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT RATIO DATA)        
     NOTE:  These Ratios include Danaher Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The ratio of earnings to
fixed charges was computed by dividing earnings by fixed charges for the periods indicated, where  earnings  consist of (1) earnings from continuing operations before incomes taxes plus (2) fixed charges, and  fixed
charges  consist of (a) interest, whether expensed or capitalized, on all indebtedness, (b) amortization of premiums, discounts and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness, and (c) an interest component representing the
estimated portion of rental expense that management believes is attributable to interest. Interest on FIN 48 liabilities is included in the tax provision in the Company s Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings and is excluded from the
computation of fixed charges.   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 19
 dex211.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 21.1 

Exhibit 21.1       DANAHER CORPORATION   SUBSIDIARIES       

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  966141 Ontario Inc.  
     
  Ontario   
 
  AB Qualitrol AKM  
     
  Sweden   
 
  ABEK LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  AC Intermediate Co.  
     
  Ohio   
 
  ACCU-Sort Asia Pacific PTE LTD  
     
  Singapore   
 
  ACCU-SORT Europe GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  ACCU-SORT Systems Australia PTY.LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  ACCU-SORT Systems, Inc.  
     
  Pennsylvania   
 
  ACME-Cleveland Corporation  
     
  Ohio   
 
  Allesee Orthondontic Appliances, Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin   
 
  Alltec Angewandte Laserlicht Technologie GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Alltec Italia S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Alltec UK Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  American Precision Industries, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  American Thermocraft Corporation  
     
  New Jersey   
 
  Anderson Instrument Co., Inc.  
     
  New York   
 
  Anderson Instrument Company LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  API Development Corporation  
     
  New York   
 
  API Harowe (St. Kitts) LTD.  
     
  St. Christopher/Nevis   
 
  API Wisconsin Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin   
 
  ApS KBUS 38 nr. 2018  
     
  Denmark   
 
  ApS KBUS38 nr. 2017  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Aquafine Corporation  
     
  California   
 
  Aquafine GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Armstrong Tools, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  ARTUS Mistral SAS  
     
  France   
 
  ARTUS S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  ARTUS Vietnam Co., Ltd.  
     
  Vietnam   
 
  Assembly Technologies LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Attachments International, Inc.  
     
  California   
 
  Autotank AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Autotank AS  
     
  Norway   
 
  Autotank Halmstad AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Autotank Holding AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Autotank O   
     
  Estonia   
 
  Autotank Products AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Autotank Russia OOO  
     
  Russia   
 
  Autotank SIA  
     
  Lativa   
 
  Autotank Skellefte  AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Autotank Sp lka z ograniczonl odpowiedzialnolcil  
     
  Poland   
 
  Aviation Mobility Canada LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Aviation Mobility, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Ball Screws and Actuators Co., Inc.  
     
  California   
 
  BAL-TEC Aktiengesellschaft  
     
  Liechtenstein   
 
  BAL-TEC Innovations GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  B rd Andersen AS  
     
  Norway   
 
  Beha-Amprobe GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Beijing Chang GI Service Station Equipment Co., LTD  
     
  China   
 
  Beijing Dianyan Electronic Instruments Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Beijing Fluke Shilu Instruments Maintenance   Service Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Beijing Raytek Photoelectric Technology Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Bobinas del Sur, S.A. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Broomco (3429) Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  CAL Controls Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Calzoni S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Cambridge Instruments LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Cambridge Marking Co. LTD (Shanghai)  
     
  China   
 
  ChemTreat Argentina, S.R.L.  
     
  Argentina   
 
  ChemTreat Dominicana, S.A.  
     
  Dominican Republic   
 
  ChemTreat Incorporated Chile Limitada  
     
  Chile   
 
  ChemTreat International Inc.  
     
  Virginia   
 
  ChemTreat Jamaica, Limited  
     
  Jamaica   
 
  ChemTreat Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  ChemTreat Puerto Rico Inc.  
     
  Virginia   
 
  ChemTreat Trinidad, Limited  
     
  Trinidad   
 
  ChemTreat Venezuela, S.R.L.  
     
  Venezuela   
 
  ChemTreat, Inc.  
     
  Virginia   
 
  Claricom Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Cleveland Precision Systems GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Codificadora y Etquetadora Willett LTDA.  
     
  Chile   
 
  Coding Management Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Comark Instruments, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Comark Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Communications Technology Mexico, S.A.de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Counterfight Solutions Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Crannog Software (UK) Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Cryla S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Danaher (Shanghai) Industrial Instrumentation Technologies R D Co., Ltd  
     
  China   
 
  Danaher (Shanghai) Management Co.Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Danaher Acquisition Finance GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Acquisition GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Acquisition Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  DANAHER AUSTRALIA FINANCE PTY LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  Danaher Australia Holding PTY LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  Danaher Canada Partners Inc.  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Danaher Canadian Finance LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Danaher Canadian Holdings LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Danaher China Holding Ltd.  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Danaher Dental Technology Investments, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Danaher European Finance Company EHF  
     
  Iceland   
 
  Danaher European Finance S.A.  
     
  Luxembourg   
 
  Danaher Evolution GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Finance APS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Danaher Finance Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Danaher Finance Company AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Danaher Finance Company Limited  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Danaher Finance Company, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Danaher Foundation  
     
  Illinois   
 
  Danaher GbR  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher General Partner Company Inc.  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Danaher HK Holdings Ltd.  
     
  Hong Kong   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Danaher Holding B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Danaher Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Hong Kong Finance LTD  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Danaher Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Danaher Iceland Finance Company LTD  
     
  Iceland   
 
  Danaher ICG Japan Co. LTD.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Danaher Industrial Controls GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Insurance Company  
     
  Vermont   
 
  Danaher IP Ireland Ltd  
     
  Ireland   
 
  Danaher Linear GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Luxembourg Sarl  
     
  Luxembourg   
 
  Danaher Malta Limited  
     
  Malta   
 
  Danaher Medical ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Danaher Motion (Hong Kong) Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Danaher Motion Finance GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Motion GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Motion Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Danaher Motion i Flen AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Danaher Motion Inc.  
     
  Korea   
 
  Danaher Motion Israel Ltd. (Servotech)  
     
  Israel   
 
  Danaher Motion Japan Co. Ltd.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Danaher Motion LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Danaher Motion S.A.  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Danaher Motion S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Danaher Motion s.r.o  
     
  Czech Republic   
 
  Danaher Motion Saro AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Danaher Motion SAS  
     
  France   
 
  Danaher Motion Stockholm AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Danaher Motion Technology, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Danaher Motion UK Company  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Danaher Setra-ICG (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Danaher Tax Administration ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Danaher Tool (Shandong) Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Danaher Tool (Shanghai) Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Danaher Tool Group LP  
     
  Canada   
 
  Danaher Tool Ltd.  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Danaher Tools and Components LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Danaher UK Finance Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Danaher UK Industries (2006) Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Danaher UK Industries Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Danaher UK Partners  
     
  Scotland   
 
  Danaher Verwaltungs GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  DANIZE COM RCIO DE MATERIAIS GR FICOS LTDA  
     
  Brazil   
 
  DANRAD ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Data Recorders Incorporated  
     
  Delaware   
 
  DATAPAQ GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  DATAPAQ Inc.  
     
  Massachusetts   
 
  DATAPAQ Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  DCI Consolidated Industries, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Delta Consolidated Industries, Inc.  
     
  Arkansas   
 
  Dental Equipment LLC  
     
  Delaware   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Desertmoon Holdings Ltd.  
     
  Cyprus   
 
  DEXIS LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  DH Denmark Holding ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  DH Holdings Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  DHCDAN Holding ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  DHR Holding India Pvt Ltd  
     
  India   
 
  Diesel Engine Retarders, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  DJ ACQUISITION PTY LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  DKK-Toa Corporation  
     
  Japan   
 
  DMG Partners  
     
  Delaware   
 
  DMG Plastics, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Dolan-Jenner Industries, Inc.  
     
  Massachusetts   
 
  DOMS A/S  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Dr. Bruno Lange AG  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Dr. Lange Nederland B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  DT Holdings Ltd.  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Dynapar Corporation  
     
  Illinois   
 
  E D S C Research and Development Private Limited  
     
  India   
 
  Easco Hand Tools Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Edelweiss Holdings ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  ELE International GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  ELE International Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  ELE International LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  EXE International Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  FJ 900, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Flow Measurement Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Fluke (G.B.) LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Fluke Australia Holding Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Fluke Australia PTY LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  Fluke Belgium N.V./S.A.  
     
  Belgium   
 
  Fluke Biomedical Europe A/S  
     
  Norway   
 
  Fluke Biomedical Holding Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Fluke Biomedical LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Fluke China Limited  
     
  China   
 
  Fluke Corporation  
     
  Washington   
 
  Fluke Denmark A/S  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Fluke Deutschland GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Fluke Do Brazil LTDA.  
     
  Brazil   
 
  Fluke Electronics Canada LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Fluke Electronics Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Fluke Electronics Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia)  
     
  Malaysia   
 
  Fluke Europe B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Fluke Finance Company EHF  
     
  Iceland   
 
  Fluke Finance Company LTD  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Fluke Finland OY  
     
  Finland   
 
  Fluke France S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Fluke Holding B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Fluke Holding Company AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Fluke Holding Company Limited  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Fluke Iberica S.L.  
     
  Spain   
 
  Fluke Industrial B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   

Company Name    
      
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Fluke International Corporation (DE)  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Fluke International Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Fluke Italia S.r.l.  
      
  Italy   
 
  Fluke Nederland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Fluke Nederland C.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Fluke Norge A/S  
      
  Norway   
 
  Fluke Precision Measurements LTD  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Fluke Shanghai Corporation  
      
  China   
 
  Fluke Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Fluke Software Ireland Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Fluke South East Asia Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Fluke Sverige AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Fluke Switzerland GmbH  
      
  Switzerland   
 
  Fluke U.K. LTD.  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Fluke Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H.  
      
  Austria   
 
  G L Motion Control Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gems Sensors GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Gems Sensors Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gems Sensors Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Gems Sensors Pension Trustees Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Gendex Corp.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gendex Dental Systems KK  
      
  Japan   
 
  Gendex Dental Systems LP  
      
  Ontario   
 
  Gendex Dental Systems PTY LTD  
      
  Australia   
 
  Gendex Dental Systems s.r.l.  
      
  Italy   
 
  GID Acquisition Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gilbarco (NZ) Holdings Ltd  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Gilbarco (NZ) LTD  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  Gilbarco Australia Holding Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Gilbarco Australia Pty Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  Gilbarco Canada Corporation / LaCorporation Gilbarco Canadienne  
      
  Nova Scotia   
 
  Gilbarco GmbH   Co. KG  
      
  Germany   
 
  Gilbarco Hong Kong Ltd.  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Gilbarco Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gilbarco International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gilbarco Latin America Andina  
      
  Chile   
 
  Gilbarco Latin America S.A.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Gilbarco LTD (UK)  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Gilbarco S.R.L.  
      
  Italy   
 
  Gilbarco Veeder-Root Asia Pte Ltd  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Gilbarco Verwaltungs GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Gilbert   Barker (NZ) PTY LTD  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  Gilbert   Barker Australia PTY LTD  
      
  Australia   
 
  GLI International Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  GP eta s.r.o.  
      
  Czech Republic   
 
  Great Plains Meter, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Hach Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Hach Lange AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Hach Lange Acquisition Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Hach Lange ApS  
      
  Denmark   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Hach Lange Controle e Analise de Aguas Ltda.  
     
  Portugal   
 
  Hach Lange d.o.o., Slovenia  
     
  Slovenia   
 
  Hach Lange EOOD (Bulgaria)  
     
  Bulgaria   
 
  Hach Lange Finance GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hach Lange France S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Hach Lange Ges.mbh.  
     
  Austria   
 
  Hach Lange GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hach Lange Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hach Lange Kereskedelmi Kft. (Hungary)  
     
  Hungary   
 
  Hach Lange LDA  
     
  Portugal   
 
  Hach Lange LTD (Ireland)  
     
  Ireland   
 
  Hach Lange LTD (UK)  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Hach Lange Maroc SARL  
     
  Morocco   
 
  HACH LANGE Monoprosopi EPE  
     
  Greece   
 
  Hach Lange N.V.  
     
  Belgium   
 
  Hach Lange S.L.  
     
  Spain   
 
  Hach Lange S.r.l. (Italy)  
     
  Italy   
 
  Hach Lange s.r.l. (Romania)  
     
  Romania   
 
  Hach Lange s.r.o. (Czech Republic)  
     
  Czech Republic   
 
  Hach Lange s.r.o. (Slovakia)  
     
  Slovakia   
 
  Hach Lange Sp. z.o.o.  
     
  Poland   
 
  Hach Lange, Su Analiz Sistemleri Ltd. Sti (Turkey)  
     
  Turkey   
 
  Hach Pacific Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Hach S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Hach Sales   Service Canada LTD  
     
  Canada   
 
  Hach Ultra Analytics GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hach Ultra Analytics Inc.  
     
  California   
 
  Hach Ultra Analytics SA  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Hach Ultra Analytics South Africa Pty. Ltd.  
     
  South Africa   
 
  Hand Tool Design Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Hart Scientific, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Hawk IR International Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Hawk IR International SARL  
     
  France   
 
  Hawk IR International, Inc  
     
  North Carolina   
 
  Heat Transfer Guarantee Co., LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Hecon Properties, Inc.  
     
  New Jersey   
 
  Hector Finance LTD  
     
  Alberta   
 
  Helen Acquisition Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Hengstler Controle Numerique S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Hengstler Finance GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hengstler GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hengstler Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Hengstler s.r.o. Kezmarok  
     
  Slovakia   
 
  Hennessy Canada LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Hennessy Industries Canada LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Hennessy Industries, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Holo-Krome Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Holo-Krome Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Hunfin Limited  
     
  Ireland   
 
  Husky Acquisition LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  ICG Holdings Srl  
     
  Italy   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Imaging Sciences International LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Industrial Fasteners, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Industrial Sensors, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Inet Technologies International, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Innotrac Diagnostics Oy  
     
  Finland   
 
  Innova LifeSciences Corporation  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Interdent Holding S.A.  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Intervest S.A.  
     
  Argentina   
 
  Inuctan Oy  
     
  Finland   
 
  Invetech (R D) PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Invetech Investments Pty Ltd  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Invetech PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Invetech Services Pty Ltd  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Invetech Technology Consulting PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Invetech, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  IPL (USA) Trading Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Ircon B.V  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Ircon, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Ireland Meter Electronics (Hong Kong) Ltd.  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Ireland Meter Electronics Zhuhai Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Jacobs (Suzhou) Vehicle Systems Co., Ltd  
     
  China   
 
  Jacobs Chuck (Hong Kong) Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Jacobs Chuck Manufacturing Company Ltd. (Suzhou)  
     
  China   
 
  Jacobs Chuck Trading Co. Ltd. (Shanghai)  
     
  China   
 
  Jacobs Holding Company  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jacobs Holdings Ltd.  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Jacobs Manufacturing Co. Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jacobs Mexico, S.A.de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Jacobs Vehicle Systems, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Janos Technology LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Jeneric/Pentron Incorporated  
     
  Connecticut   
 
  Jennings Land Co.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Jessie   J Company Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Jessie   J Holdings Limited  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Joslyn Canada  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Joslyn Clark Controls, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Joslyn Electronic Systems Company, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Joslyn Holding Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Joslyn Industries  
     
  Canada   
 
  Joslyn Manufacturing Company LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Joslyn Nova Scotia Unlimited Liability Company  
     
  Nova Scotia   
 
  Joslyn Sunbank Company, LLC  
     
  California   
 
  JS Technology, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Jung Feintechnik GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  K.K. Fluke Japan  
     
  Japan   
 
  K.K. HACH ULTRA JAPAN  
     
  Japan   
 
  Kabushiki Kaisha Shirokusu Shika Shokai  
     
  Japan   
 
  KACO Elekrotechnik GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Kaltenbach   Voight GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Kaltenbach   Voigt Finance GmbH  
     
  Germany   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Kaltenbach   Voigt Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  KAVO Austria Dentalwarenhandelsgesellschaft mbH  
     
  Austria   
 
  KAVO Benelux N.V.  
     
  Belgium   
 
  KAVO CZ spol.s.r.o.  
     
  Czech Republic   
 
  KAVO Dental Asia-Pacific PTE. LTD.  
     
  Singapore   
 
  KAVO Dental Corporation  
     
  Illinois   
 
  KAVO Dental GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  KAVO Dental Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  KAVO Dental Manufacturing, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  KAVO Dental Russland o.o.o.  
     
  Russia   
 
  KAVO Dental S.A.  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  KAVO Dental S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  KAVO Dental S.L.  
     
  Spain   
 
  KAVO Dental Supply (Malaysia) SDN BHD  
     
  Malaysia   
 
  KAVO do Brasil Industria e Comercio LTDA  
     
  Brazil   
 
  KaVo Hilfe e.V.  
     
  Germany   
 
  KAVO Italia S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  KAVO Nederland B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  KAVO Osaka K.K.  
     
  Japan   
 
  KAVO Polska Sp.Z.o.o.  
     
  Poland   
 
  KAVO Promedi S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  KAVO Scandinavia A.B.  
     
  Sweden   
 
  KB Instrumate  
     
  Sweden   
 
  KDS Systems Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kerr AG (Europe)  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Kerr Australia PTY Limited  
     
  Australia   
 
  Kerr Australia Holding Pty Ltd.  
     
  Australia   
 
  Kerr Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kerr GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Kerr IP, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kerr Italia S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Kerr U.K. Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  KerrHawe S.A  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  KERRSPOFA LTD.  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Kingsley Tools, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kollmorgen Asia Investment Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kollmorgen Corporation  
     
  New York   
 
  Kollmorgen Finance Private Ltd. Co.  
     
  Cyprus   
 
  Kollmorgen Holding Company AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Kollmorgen India Investment Company  
     
  Mauritius   
 
  Kollmorgen International LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kollmorgen Overseas Development Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Kollmorgen S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Kollmorgen Securities Corporation  
     
  Massachusetts   
 
  Kollmorgen Servotronix Ltd.  
     
  Israel   
 
  Kurt Kaltenbach Stiftung GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Launchchange Finance Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Launchchange Finance Sarl  
     
  Luxembourg   
 
  Launchchange Holding Company  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Launchchange Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Launchchange Instrumentation Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Launchchange Ireland Ltd  
     
  Ireland   
 
  Launchchange Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Lea Way Hand Tool Ltd.  
     
  Taiwan   
 
  Leftfront Holdings Pty Ltd  
     
  New South Wales   
 
  Leftfront Pty Ltd  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Leica Biosystems Melbourne Pty Ltd  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Leica Biosystems Newcastle Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Leica Biosystems Nussloch GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Leica Biosystems St. Louis LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Leica BSD International Pty Ltd  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Leica Instruments (Singapore) Pte Ltd  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Leica Instruments Ltd Shanghai  
     
  China   
 
  Leica Microsistemas Instrumentos de Precisao Sociedade unipessoal, Limitada  
     
  Portugal   
 
  Leica Microsistemas SA  
     
  Spain   
 
  Leica Microsystems (Hong Kong) Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Leica Microsystems (SEA) Pte Ltd  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Leica Microsystems (Shanghai) Ltd  
     
  China   
 
  Leica Microsystems A/S  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Leica Microsystems AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Leica Microsystems AG (Schweiz)  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Leica Microsystems Australia Holding Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Leica Microsystems Belgium BVBA  
     
  Belgium   
 
  Leica Microsystems BV  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Leica Microsystems Cambridge Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Leica Microsystems Canada  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Leica Microsystems CMS GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Leica Microsystems GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Leica Microsystems Holdings GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Leica Microsystems Holdings Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Leica Microsystems Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Leica Microsystems IR GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Leica Microsystems KK  
     
  Japan   
 
  Leica Microsystems Limited (UK)  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Leica Microsystems Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Leica Microsystems S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Leica Microsystems S.p.A.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Leica Microsystems Trading (Shanghai) Ltd  
     
  China   
 
  Leica Mikrosysteme GmbH  
     
  Austria   
 
  Leica Mikrosysteme Handelgesellschaft mbH  
     
  Austria   
 
  Leica Mikrosysteme Vertrieb GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Leica Technology B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Leitz Vermogensverwaltungs und Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  LEM HEME Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  LEM Instruments   Meters Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  LEM NORMA GmbH  
     
  Austria   
 
  Light Controls Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Linear Motion LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Linx Acquisition Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Linx Asia Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Linx Printing Technologies Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Linx S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Linx Technologies Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  LLP Holdings PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Logitron Asia Ltd (Thailand)  
     
  Thailand   
 
  Logitron International S.  r.l.  
     
  Luxembourg   
 
  LW Holdings Ltd.  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  LWHT Corporation  
     
  Taiwan   
 
  Mankeen Investment LTD   
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Marley Pump Europe B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Marsh Interex Ltd.  
     
  Jamaica   
 
  Marsh Label Technologies LLC  
     
  Missouri   
 
  Marsh-McBirney, Inc.  
     
  Maryland   
 
  Master Gears Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Matco Tools Canada  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Matco Tools Corporation  
     
  New Jersey   
 
  Maxtek Components Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  McCormick Selph Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  McCrometer, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Mechanics Custom Tools Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Metrex Research Corporation  
     
  Wisconsin   
 
  Metron US., Inc.  
     
  Michigan   
 
  Microtest Europe LTD.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Moonsilk Holdings Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Moonsilk Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Motion Engineering Incorporated  
     
  California   
 
  Motion Engineering K.K.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Motion Engineering UK LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Namco Controls Corporation  
     
  Ohio   
 
  Namco Controls GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  NEFF Antriesbstechnik Automation GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Negele Messtechnik GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Newtown Manufacturing Company, Inc.  
     
  Connecticut   
 
  NLL Investments (UK)  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  NLL Subco PTY LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  NMTC Partners Inc.  
     
  Ontario   
 
  NMTC, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Noglia Vermogensverwaltung GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Norcim LLC  
     
  New York   
 
  Novocasta Holdings LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  OECO Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  OECO LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  OldTide Corp.  
     
  California   
 
  OOO SPOFA DENTAL  
     
  Russia   
 
  Orbisphere Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Orbisphere Management Holdings S.A.  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Ormco Australia Holding Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Ormco BV  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Ormco Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Ormco de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Ormco Europe BV  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Ormco GmbH  
     
  Germany   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Ormco IP, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Ormco Pty. Limited  
     
  Australia   
 
  Ormex, S.A. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Ormodent Belgique S.A.  
     
  Belgium   
 
  Ormodent LDA  
     
  Portugal   
 
  ORMODENT LTD  
     
  Israel   
 
  Ormodent S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  OTT France S.a.r.l.  
     
  France   
 
  OTT Hydrometria, S.L.  
     
  Spain   
 
  OTT Hydrometrie A.G.  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  OTT Hydrometry LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  OTT Latinoamerica, C.A.  
     
  Venezuela   
 
  OTT Messtechnik GmbH   Co. KG  
     
  Germany   
 
  OTT Messtechnik Verwaltungs GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  OTT Southern Africa PTY LTD  
     
  South Africa   
 
  Oy Autotank Ab  
     
  Finland   
 
  Pacific Scientific Company  
     
  California   
 
  Pacific Scientific Energetic Materials Company (Arizona) LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Pacific Scientific Energetic Materials Company (California) Inc.  
     
  California   
 
  Pacific Scientific Energetics Company, Hollister Division, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Pacific Scientific GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Pacific Scientific Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  PacSci Motion Control, Inc.  
     
  Massachusetts   
 
  Pentron Clinical Technologies, LLC  
     
  Connecticut   
 
  Pentron Corporation  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Pentron Laboratory Technologies, LLC  
     
  Connecticut   
 
  Petroleum Industry Controls, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Piccadilly Precision Engineering LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Pinnacle Products Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin   
 
  Portescap  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Portescap Danaher Motion U.K. LTD.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Portescap Danaher Motion U.S. LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Portescap France SAS  
     
  France   
 
  Portescap India Private Limited  
     
  India   
 
  Portescap International  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Portescap Malaysia SDN. BHD.  
     
  Malaysia   
 
  Portescap Singapore PTE LTD  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Portescap U.S. Inc.  
     
  New York   
 
  Portescap UK LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Power Tool Holders Incorporated  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Power Transformer Controls Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Precision Gauges, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Precision Optics Training Centre Pte Ltd  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Premier Global Search, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Prozes und Maschinen Automation GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Qualitrol Company LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Qualitrol Finance Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Qualitrol GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Qualitrol Holding Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Qualitrol Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Qualitrol Instruments Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Qualitrol Instruments SA  
     
  Brussels   
 
  Quality Wire Processing, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  R. Jung GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Radiometer (UK) Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Radiometer America Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Radiometer Analytical S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Radiometer Australia Holding Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Radiometer Basel AG  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Radiometer Canada LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Radiometer Finance Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Radiometer Finans A/S  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Radiometer GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Radiometer Iberica S.A.  
     
  Spain   
 
  Radiometer Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Radiometer Ireland Ltd.  
     
  Ireland   
 
  Radiometer K.K.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Radiometer Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Radiometer Medical ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Radiometer Medical Equipment (Shanghai) Co. Ltd  
     
  China   
 
  Radiometer Medical Sales Pty. Ltd.  
     
  Australia   
 
  Radiometer Nederland B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Radiometer Pacific Ltd.  
     
  New Zealand   
 
  Radiometer Pacific Pty. Ltd.  
     
  Australia   
 
  Radiometer RSCH GmbH  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Radiometer S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Radiometer s.r.o.  
     
  Czech Republic   
 
  Radiometer Spolka z.o.o.  
     
  Poland   
 
  Raven Acquisition ApS  
     
  Denmark   
 
  Raytek Corporation  
     
  California   
 
  Raytek Do Brasil LTDA  
     
  Brazil   
 
  Raytek GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Raytek Investments LTD (Mauritius)  
     
  Mauritius   
 
  R-Can Environmental Inc.  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Robin Electronics LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Saner Linx Beschriftungstechnik  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  SDS Canada Partnership Limited  
     
  Nova Scotia   
 
  SDS de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  SDS Dental Holdings Company  
     
  Nova Scotia   
 
  SDS Kerr Co., Limited  
     
  Thailand   
 
  Sea-Bird Electronics, Inc.  
     
  Washington   
 
  Securaplane Technologies, Inc.  
     
  Arizona   
 
  Sendx Medical Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Senstronics Holdings Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Senstronics Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Service Station Products Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Setra Systems, Inc.  
     
  Massachusetts   
 
  Shanghai Safa Plating Co. LTD  
     
  China   
 
  Shanghai Safe Plastic Cement Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Shanghai Safu Machinery Hardware Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Shanghai Sata Tools Machinery Manufacturing Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Shanghai Shilu Instrument Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Sheriff Acquisition Company  
     
  Illinois   
 
  Shirokusa Dental Supply Works  
     
  Japan   
 
  Societe Civile Immobiliere  
     
  France   
 
  Socodent S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Sonix Inc.  
     
  Virginia   
 
  Sonix K.K.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Sonix Technologies SDV.BHD.  
     
  Malaysia   
 
  SpofaDental a.s.  
     
  Czech Republic   
 
  Stampede Acquisition Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  SunBank de Mexico, S.de RL de CV  
     
  Mexico   
 
  SunBank Family of Companies, LLC  
     
  California   
 
  Superior Electric Holding Group LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Surgipath Canada, Inc.  
     
  Canada   
 
  Surgipath Europe Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Surgipath Medical Industries, Inc.  
     
  Illinois   
 
  Swiss Precision Parts Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  SWL Management GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Sybron Alberta Limited  
     
  Alberta   
 
  Sybron Canada Funding Limited Partnership  
     
  Nova Scotia   
 
  Sybron Canada General Partner Company  
     
  Nova Scotia   
 
  Sybron Canada Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Sybron Canada Limited Partner Company  
     
  Nova Scotia   
 
  Sybron Canada Limited/Sybron Canada Limitee  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Sybron Dental Specialties Japan, Inc.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Sybron Implant Solutions Corporation  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Sybron Implant Solutions GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Sybron Implant Solutions Pty Ltd.  
     
  Australia   
 
  Sybron Implant Solutions UK Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  TECNA Srl  
     
  Italy   
 
  Tektronix AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Tektronix (Barbados) Limited  
     
  Barbados   
 
  Tektronix (China) Co., Limited  
     
  China   
 
  Tektronix (India) Private Ltd.  
     
  India   
 
  Tektronix Analysis Software, Inc.  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix Asia, Ltd.  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix Berlin G.m.b.H.   Co. KG  
     
  Germany   
 
  Tektronix Berlin Verwaltungs G.m.b.H.  
     
  Germany   
 
  Tektronix Bristol Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Tektronix Cambridge Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Tektronix Canada Inc.  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Tektronix China Business Trust  
     
  China   
 
  Tektronix China Holdings Ltd.  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Tektronix China Investments Ltd.  
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
  Tektronix Communications Engineering S.R.L.  
     
  Moldova   
 
  Tektronix Development Company  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix Engineering Development (India) Private Limited  
     
  India   
 
  Tektronix Espa ola SA  
     
  Spain   
 
  Tektronix Export, Inc.  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix Federal Systems, Inc.  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix Finance Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Tektronix G.m.b.H.  
     
  Germany   
 
  Tektronix GESELLSCHAFT m.b.H.  
     
  Austria   
 
  Tektronix Holland B.V.  
     
  Holland   
 
  Tektronix Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong   
 
  Tektronix IC-DISC Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Tektronix Inc.  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix Industria Comercio Ltda  
     
  Brazil   
 
  Tektronix International GmbH  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Tektronix International Inc.  
     
  Oregon   
 
  Tektronix International Sales GmbH  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Tektronix Japan Ltd.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Tektronix Korea, Ltd.  
     
  Korea   
 
  Tektronix Netherlands Holding B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Tektronix Network Systems GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Tektronix Network Systems Pty Ltd  
     
  Australia   
 
  Tektronix Oy  
     
  Finland   
 
  Tektronix Padova S.p.A.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Tektronix S.A.  
     
  France   
 
  Tektronix S.p.A.  
     
  Italy   
 
  Tektronix SA de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Tektronix Southeast Asia Pte Ltd.  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Tektronix Taiwan, Ltd  
     
  Taiwan   
 
  Tektronix Texas, LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Tektronix U.K. Holdings Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Tektronix U.K. Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Tenzen Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Tfe Techniques et Fabrication Electroniques SAS  
     
  France   
 
  The Allen Manufacturing Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  The Anglodent Company  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Thomson 60 Case LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Thomson Barnstaple Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Thomson Bay Company LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Thomson Industries S.de R.L. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico   
 
  Thomson Industries, Inc.  
     
  New York   
 
  Thomson International Holdings LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Thomson Micron LLC  
     
  New York   
 
  Tianjin Danaher Motion Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Tollo Linear AB  
     
  Sweden   
 
  Trojan Investment Company LP  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Trojan Technologies  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Trojan Technologies Deutschland GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Trojan Technologies Espana S.L.  
     
  Spain   
 
  Trojan Technologies ULC  
     
  Ontario   
 
  Trojan Technologies, Inc.  
     
  Georgia   
 
  Trojan US Holdings Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Trojan UV Holdings Corp.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  TrojanUV Technologies UK Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Truck Storage Incorporated  
     
  Delaware   
 
  U.S. Peroxide LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  UAB Autotank  
     
  Lithuania   
 
  Universal Technic SAS  
     
  France   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Utica Holding Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Veeder-Root Company  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Veeder-Root Do Brasil LTDA  
     
  Brazil   
 
  Veeder-Root Environmental Systems, Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Veeder-Root Finance Company  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Veeder-Root Finance GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Veeder-Root GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Veeder-Root Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Veeder-Root Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Veeder-Root Petroleum Shanghai  
     
  China   
 
  Venture Measurement Company LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Verigard LLC  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Verwaltungs- und Beteiligunggesellschaft Bach GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  VFS (USA) Trading Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  VI Holdings PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Victory Acquisition Ltda.  
     
  Brazil   
 
  VIDA Employee Trust Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  VIDA Group Limited  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Videojet Beteiligungs GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  VideoJet do Brazil  
     
  Brazil   
 
  Videojet GmbH   Co KG  
     
  Germany   
 
  Videojet Guangzhou Packaging Equipment Co Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Videojet K.K.  
     
  Japan   
 
  Videojet Technologies (2006) LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Videojet Technologies (Asia HQ) Pte Ltd  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Videojet Technologies (CP) LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Videojet Technologies (I) Pvt. Ltd  
     
  India   
 
  Videojet Technologies (S) PTE. LTD.  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Videojet Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Videojet Technologies B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Videojet Technologies Canada L.P.  
     
  Canada   
 
  Videojet Technologies Europe B.V.  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Videojet Technologies GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Videojet Technologies Inc.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Videojet Technologies JSC  
     
  Russia   
 
  Videojet Technologies LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Videojet Technologies PTE. LTD. (Asia HQ)  
     
  Singapore   
 
  Videojet Technologies S.A.S.  
     
  France   
 
  Videojet Technologies S.L.  
     
  Spain   
 
  Videojet Technologies S.L. Sucussal em Portugal  
     
  Portugal   
 
  Videojet Technologies SP z.o.o.  
     
  Poland   
 
  Videojet Technologies Suisse GmbH  
     
  Switzerland   
 
  Videojet Technologies Urun Kodlama ve Etiketleme Danismanlik ve Tic. LTD. STI  
     
  Turkey   
 
  Videojet Technologies Urun Kodlama ve Etiketleme Danismanlik ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi  
     
  Turkey   
 
  Videojet Verwaltungs GmbH  
     
  Germany   
 
  Vision BioSystems (Europe) LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Vision Finance Corporation PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Vision IP PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Vision Properties PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   

Company Name    
     
     Jurisdiction     
 
  Vision Systems PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Visual Networks Italia S.r.l.  
     
  Italy   
 
  VSE Holdings PTY LTD  

VSL (UK) Holdings  
     
  Victoria   
 
  VSL Group Holdings PTY LTD  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  VSL Invest Subco 1 PTY LTD  
     
  Victoria   
 
  VSL Investments LLP (Limited Partnership)  
     
  Victoria   
 
  VSL R D Subco 2 PTY LTD  
     
  Australia   
 
  VSL R D Subco Pty Ltd  
     
  Victoria   
 
  Wermex Corporation  
     
  Australia   
 
  West Instruments Ltd.  
     
  Texas   
 
  Western Pacific Industries Inc.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  WIL N.V.  
     
  Delaware   
 
  Willett America Inc.  
     
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
  Willett GmbH  
     
  Texas   
 
  Willett Holdings B.V.  
     
  Germany   
 
  Willett Industriessysteme Handelgsges.mbH  
     
  Netherlands   
 
  Willett International Limited  
     
  Austria   
 
  Willett Korea Co., Ltd.  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Willett Limited (Thailand)  
     
  Korea   
 
  Willett Overseas Limited  
     
  Thailand   
 
  Willett S.A. (Uruguay)  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Willett Srl  
     
  Uruguay   
 
  Zhuhai FTZ Videojet CIJ TEchnologies CO. LTD  
     
  Italy   
 
  Zhuhai S.E.Z. Videojet Electronics Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Zhuji Jacobs Vehicle Systems Co. Ltd.  
     
  China   
 
  Zibo Kehui Electric Co. LTD  
     
  China   
 
  Zipher Limited  
     
  China   
 
  Z llig AG  
     
  United Kingdom   
 
  Z llig GmbH  
     
  Switzerland   

Germany   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 20
 dex231.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 23.1 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
following Registration Statements of Danaher Corporation of our reports dated February 23, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Danaher Corporation and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
Danaher Corporation and our report with respect to the financial statement schedule of Danaher Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Danaher Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008.       Registration Statements on Form S-3        
     Registration Statements on Form S-8        
    /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      McLean, Virginia      February 23, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 21
 dex311.htm
 EXHIBT 31.1

Exhibt 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Danaher Corporation;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b. Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d. Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
     5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and      b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 24, 2009  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.    

Name:  
     
  H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.   

Title:  
     
  President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 22
 dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Daniel L. Comas, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Danaher Corporation;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b. Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d. Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
     5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and      b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

Date: February 24, 2009  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Daniel L. Comas    

Name:  
     
  Daniel L. Comas   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 23
 dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge, Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Danaher Corporation.       

Date: February 24, 2009  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.    

Name:  
     
  H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.   

Title:  
     
  President and Chief Executive Officer   
    This certification accompanies the Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Danaher Corporation specifically incorporates it by reference.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 24
 dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Daniel L. Comas, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge, Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Danaher Corporation.       

Date: February 24, 2009  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Daniel L. Comas    

Name:  
     
  Daniel L. Comas   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
    This certification accompanies the Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Danaher Corporation specifically incorporates it by reference.   

</EX-32.2>

