<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150225_10-K_edgar_data_313616_0000313616-15-000038_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>22478793</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>518621</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5843065</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5502885</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6713419</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3593626</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>98</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000313616-15-000038.hdr.sgml : 20150225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150224180150
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000313616-15-000038
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DANAHER CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000313616
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY, AND CONTROL [3823]
		IRS NUMBER:				591995548
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08089
		FILM NUMBER:		15645153

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 PENNSYLVANIA AVE. N.W.
		STREET 2:		SUITE 800W
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20037-1701
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2028280850

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 PENNSYLVANIA AVE. N.W.
		STREET 2:		SUITE 800W
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20037-1701

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DMG INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850221

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000313616-15-000038.txt : 20150225

10-K
 1
 dhr-20141231x10xk.htm
 10-K

DHR-2014.12.31-10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
   ____________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

OR 
                   
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the transition period from         to     

Commission File Number: 1-8089 
   ____________________________________ 
  DANAHER CORPORATION 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 202-828-0850 
  Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of Each Class 
      
    Name of Each Exchange On Which Registered 
      Common Stock $.01 par value 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  NONE 
  (Title of Class) 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
  Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
  Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).     Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K       . 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
    
                         Large accelerated filer 

Accelerated filer 

Non-accelerated filer 
      
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
      
    Smaller reporting company 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) 
  Yes             No      
  As of   February 9, 2015  , the number of shares of Registrant s common stock outstanding was   705,777,722  .  The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on   June 27, 2014   was   $48.2 billion  , based upon the closing price of the Registrant s common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on such date. 
  EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE 106 
   ____________________________________ 
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the Registrant s proxy statement for its   2015   annual meeting of stockholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant s fiscal year end.  With the exception of the sections of the   2015   Proxy Statement specifically incorporated herein by reference, the   2015   Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K. 
  
       Table of Contents  

   TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE 

INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
    3 

PART I  

Item 1. 
     Business  
    3 
        
    Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    16 
        
    Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    26 
        
    Item 2. 
     Properties  
    27 
        
    Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    27 
        
    Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    27 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    27 

PART II  

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    29 
        
    Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    30 
        
    Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    31 
        
    Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    59 
        
    Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    60 
        
    Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    104 
        
    Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    104 
        
    Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    104 

PART III  

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    105 
        
    Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    105 
        
    Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    105 
        
    Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    105 
        
    Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    105 

PART IV  

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    105 

2 

       Table of Contents  

   INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  Certain statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, in other documents we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), in our press releases, webcasts, conference calls, materials delivered to shareholders and other communications, are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the United States federal securities laws.  All statements other than historical factual information are forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements regarding: projections of revenue, expenses, profit, profit margins, tax rates, tax provisions, cash flows, pension and benefit obligations and funding requirements, our liquidity position or other projected financial measures; management s plans and strategies for future operations, including statements relating to anticipated operating performance, cost reductions, restructuring activities, new product and service developments, competitive strengths or market position, acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, split-offs or other distributions, strategic opportunities, securities offerings, stock repurchases, dividends and executive compensation; growth, declines and other trends in markets we sell into; new or modified laws, regulations and accounting pronouncements; outstanding claims, legal proceedings, tax audits and assessments and other contingent liabilities; foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; general economic and capital markets conditions; the timing of any of the foregoing; assumptions underlying any of the foregoing; and any other statements that address events or developments that Danaher intends or believes will or may occur in the future.  Terminology such as  believe,   anticipate,   should,   could,   intend,   plan,   expect,   estimate,   project,   target,   may,   possible,   potential,   forecast  and  positioned  and similar references to future periods are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements are accompanied by such words.  Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties set forth under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  in this Annual Report. 
  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from the results, developments and business decisions contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the report, document, press release, webcast, call, materials or other communication in which they are made.  We do not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise. 
    
    PART I 
    
    ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
  General 
  Danaher Corporation designs, manufactures and markets professional, medical, industrial and commercial products and services, which are typically characterized by strong brand names, innovative technology and major market positions.  Our research and development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, service and administrative facilities are located in more than 50 countries.  Our business consists of five segments: Test   Measurement; Environmental; Life Sciences   Diagnostics; Dental; and Industrial Technologies.  We strive to create shareholder value through: 
             
    delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for the types of products and services we provide; 
                
    upper quartile financial performance compared to our peer companies; and 
                
    upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to our peer companies. 
     To accomplish these goals, we use a set of growth, lean and leadership tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM ( DBS ), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation.  Within the DBS framework, we pursue a number of ongoing strategic initiatives relating to idea generation, product development and commercialization, global sourcing of materials and services, manufacturing improvement and sales and marketing. 
  To further these objectives we also acquire businesses that either strategically fit within our existing business portfolio or expand our portfolio into a new and attractive business area.  Given the rapid pace of technological development and the specialized expertise typical of our served markets, acquisitions also provide us access to important new technologies and domain expertise.  We believe there are many acquisition opportunities available within our targeted markets.  The extent to which we consummate and effectively integrate appropriate acquisitions will affect our overall growth and operating results.   
    3 

     Table of Contents  

   We also continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may dispose of businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. 
  Danaher Corporation, originally DMG, Inc., was organized in 1969 as a Massachusetts real estate investment trust.  In 1978 it was reorganized as a Florida corporation under the name Diversified Mortgage Investors, Inc. which in a second reorganization in 1980 became a subsidiary of a newly created holding company named DMG, Inc.  DMG, Inc. adopted the name Danaher in 1984 and was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1986.  In this Annual Report, the terms  Danaher  or the  Company  refer to either Danaher Corporation or to Danaher Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. 
  2014   sales by geographic destination (geographic destination refers to the geographic area where the final sale to the Company s customer is made) were: North America, 45% (including 43% in the United States); Europe, 27%; Asia/Australia, 20% and all other regions, 8%.  For additional information regarding sales by geography, please refer to Note 19 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 
  Reportable Segments 
  The table below describes the percentage of our total annual revenues attributable to each of our five segments over each of the last three years ended December 31, 2014.  For additional information regarding sales, operating profit and identifiable assets by segment, please refer to Note 19 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 

TEST   MEASUREMENT 
  Our Test   Measurement segment offerings help customers design cutting-edge innovations, keep their businesses up and running and safeguard their network operations.  Our instruments business offers test, measurement and monitoring products that are used in electronic design, manufacturing and advanced technology development, as well as for installation, service and maintenance of electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications.  Our communications business is a leading provider of products and solutions used in the design, deployment, monitoring and security of traditional, virtualized, mobile and cloud-based networks operated by communications service providers, hosting service providers, enterprises and government agencies worldwide.  Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic instruments; service, installation and maintenance professionals; manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and deploy network equipment; and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services.    2014   sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 55%; Europe, 18%; Asia/Australia, 20% and all other regions, 7%. 
  We established our Test   Measurement business in 1998 through the acquisition of Fluke Corporation, and have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Tektronix in 2007 and Keithley Instruments in 2010.  Our Test   Measurement segment consists of the following lines of business. 
  Instruments 
             
    General purpose test instruments.    Our instruments business offers general purpose test products and video test, measurement and monitoring products used in electronic design, manufacturing and advanced technology development.   
                
    The business  general purpose test products, including oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, signal sources and spectrum analyzers, are used to capture, display and analyze streams of electrical data.  We sell these products into a variety of industries with significant electronic content, including the communications, computer, consumer electronics, education, military/aerospace and semiconductor industries.  Typical users of these products include research and development engineers who use our general purpose test products to design, de-bug, monitor and validate the function and performance of electronic components, subassemblies and end-products.   
       4 

     Table of Contents  

Our video test products include waveform monitors, video signal generators, compressed digital video test products and other test and measurement equipment used to enhance a viewer s video experience.  Typical users of these products include video equipment manufacturers, content developers and traditional television broadcasters. 
                
    Professional test tools.    Our instruments business also designs, manufactures, and markets a variety of compact professional test tools, thermal imaging and calibration equipment for electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications.  These test products measure voltage, current, resistance, power quality, frequency, pressure, temperature and air quality.  Typical users of these products include electrical engineers, electricians, electronic technicians, medical technicians, and industrial maintenance professionals. 
     Products in this business are marketed under the AMPROBE, FLUKE, FLUKE BIOMEDICAL, KEITHLEY, MAXTEK and TEKTRONIX brands.  Competition in the instruments business is based on a number of factors, including the performance, ruggedness, ease of use, ergonomics and aesthetics of the product, as well as the other factors described under   Competition.   Sales in the instruments business are generally made through independent distributors and direct sales personnel. 
  Communications 
  Our communications business designs, manufactures, markets, licenses, sells and supports innovative hardware and software solutions that help our customers deploy, manage and secure their communication network technologies and services. Communications networks include telecommunication and other service provider networks as well as enterprise networks.  Our solutions collect and analyze massive volumes of voice, video and data traffic that traverse communication networks.  Our product offerings include the following: telecommunications network monitoring systems for performance management and troubleshooting; cyber security detection and mitigation systems for service provider and enterprise networks; portable enterprise network analysis and optimization tools; network packet brokering tools; enterprise network performance management systems; and geolocation systems for mobile telecommunications networks.  Businesses in multiple industry verticals (including wireless and fixed-line communications service providers, hosting service providers, enterprises and governmental agencies) use our solutions to reduce operating expenses and improve the performance and availability of their communications networks.  Typical users of the business  products include engineers, installers, operators, and technicians of advanced communications networks. 
  Products in this business are marketed under the AIRMAGNET, ARBOR NETWORKS, FLUKE NETWORKS, TEKTRONIX COMMUNICATIONS and VSS MONITORING brands.  Key competitive factors in our communications business vary among our product and service lines, but include product scalability and performance, technology and product availability, price, quality, delivery speed, service and support, innovation, distribution network and brand name recognition.  Sales in the communications business are generally made through our direct sales organization and to a lesser extent through independent distributors and resellers located in principal market areas. 
  In the fourth quarter of 2014, Danaher entered into a definitive agreement with NetScout Systems, Inc. ( NetScout") to combine the majority of Danaher's Test   Measurement segment's communications business with NetScout (Danaher will retain the data communications cable installation business and the communication service provider (field and test tool systems) business of Fluke Networks and these will become part of the Test   Measurement segment s instruments business following the closing of the transaction).  The transaction will be structured as a distribution of the communications business to Danaher shareholders in either a spin-off transaction, a split-off transaction, or a combination split-off and spin-off, followed by a merger of the communications business with a subsidiary of NetScout.  For additional information, please see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
  Other Businesses 
  Matco Tools manufactures and distributes professional tools, toolboxes and automotive maintenance equipment through independent mobile distributors, who sell primarily to professional mechanics under the MATCO brand.  Professional mechanics typically select tools based on relevant innovative features and the other factors described under   Competition.  Hennessy Industries is a leading North American full-line wheel service equipment manufacturer, providing brake lathes, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under the AMMCO, BADA and COATS brands.  Typical users of these products are automotive tire and repair shops.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel, independent distributors, retailers and original equipment manufacturers.  Competition in the wheel service equipment business is based on the factors described under   Competition.  
  Test   Measurement segment manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, and Asia. 
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   ENVIRONMENTAL 
  Our Environmental segment products and services help protect the global water supply, facilitate environmental stewardship, enhance the safety of personal data and improve business efficiencies.    2014   sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 49%; Europe, 24%; Asia/Australia, 15% and all other regions, 12%.  Our Environmental segment consists of the following lines of business. 
  Water Quality 
  Danaher s water quality business provides instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.  We entered the water quality sector in the late 1990 s through the acquisitions of Dr. Lange and Hach Company, and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Trojan Technologies Inc. in 2004, ChemTreat, Inc. in 2007 and Aguasin in 2014.  Our water quality business designs, manufactures and markets: 
             
    a wide range of analytical instruments, software and related consumables and services that detect and measure chemical, physical, and microbiological parameters in ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water; 
                
    ultraviolet disinfection systems, which disinfect billions of gallons of municipal, industrial and consumer water every day in more than 35 countries; and 
                
    industrial water treatment solutions, including chemical treatment solutions intended to address corrosion, scaling and biological growth problems in boiler, cooling water and industrial wastewater applications as well as associated analytical services. 
     Typical users of these products and services include professionals in municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment plants and industrial process water and wastewater treatment facilities, third party testing laboratories and environmental field operations.  Customers in these industries choose suppliers based on a number of factors including the customer s existing supplier relationships, product performance and ease of use, the comprehensiveness of the supplier s product offering, after-sales service and support and the other factors described under   Competition.   Our water quality business provides products under a variety of brands, including CHEMTREAT, HACH, HACH/LANGE, MCCROMETER and TROJAN TECHNOLOGIES.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.  Sales are made through our direct sales personnel, independent representatives and independent distributors. 
  Retail/Commercial Petroleum 
  Danaher s retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management.  We have served the retail/commercial petroleum market since the mid-1980s through our Veeder-Root business, and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through various acquisitions including the acquisitions of Red Jacket in 2001, Gilbarco in 2002, the petroleum dispenser business of Larsen   Toubro in 2010 and ANGI Energy Systems in 2014.  Our retail/commercial petroleum business designs, manufactures and markets: 
             
    environmental monitoring and leak detection systems; 
                
    vapor recovery equipment; 
                
    fuel dispensers for petroleum and compressed natural gas ("CNG"); 
                
    point-of-sale and secure electronic payment technologies for retail petroleum stations; 
                
    submersible turbine pumps; and 
                
    remote monitoring and outsourced fuel management services, including compliance services, fuel system maintenance, and inventory planning and supply chain support. 
     Typical users of these products include independent and company-owned retail petroleum stations, high-volume retailers, convenience stores, and commercial vehicle fleets.   
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   We entered the vehicle tracking and fleet management market through our acquisitions of Navman Wireless in 2012 and Teletrac in 2013.  Navman Wireless and Teletrac are leading global providers of vehicle tracking and fleet management hardware and software solutions that fleet managers use to position and dispatch vehicles, manage fuel consumption and promote vehicle safety, compliance, operating efficiency and productivity.  Typical users of these solutions span a variety of industries and include businesses and other organizations that manage vehicle fleets. 
  Customers in this line of business choose suppliers based on a number of factors including product features, performance and functionality, the supplier s geographic coverage and the other factors described under   Competition.   We market the products in this line of business under a variety of brands, including ANGI, GILBARCO, GILBARCO AUTOTANK, NAVMAN WIRELESS, TELETRAC and VEEDER-ROOT.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.  Sales are generally made through independent distributors and our direct sales personnel. 
  LIFE SCIENCES   DIAGNOSTICS 
  Our diagnostics business offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians' offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions.  Our life sciences business offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines.    2014   sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 37%; Europe, 29%; Asia/Australia, 27% and all other regions, 7%.   
  Diagnostics 
  We established our diagnostics business in 2004 through the acquisition of Radiometer.  We have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Leica Microsystems in 2005, Vision Systems in 2006, Genetix in 2009, Beckman Coulter in 2011, Iris International and Aperio Technologies in 2012, HemoCue in 2013, Devicor Medical Products in 2014 and the clinical microbiology business of Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics in 2015.  The diagnostics business consists of our clinical laboratory (or clinical lab), acute care and pathology diagnostics businesses. 
  Our clinical lab business is a leading manufacturer and marketer of biomedical testing instrument systems, tests and supplies that are used to evaluate and analyze samples made up of body fluids, cells and other substances.  The information generated is used to diagnose disease, monitor and guide treatment and therapy, assist in managing chronic disease and assess patient status in hospital, outpatient and physicians' office settings.  The business offers the following products: 
             
    our chemistry systems use electrochemical detection and chemical reactions with patient samples to detect and quantify substances of diagnostic interest in blood, urine and other body fluids.  Commonly performed tests include glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, electrolytes, proteins and enzymes, as well as tests to detect urinary tract infections and kidney and bladder disease. 
                
    our immunoassay systems also detect and quantify chemical substances of diagnostic interest in body fluids, particularly in circumstances where more specialized diagnosis is required.  Commonly performed immunoassay tests assess thyroid function, screen and monitor for cancer and cardiac risk and provide important information in fertility and reproductive testing. 
                
    our cellular analysis business includes hematology and flow cytometry products.  The business  hematology systems use principles of physics, optics, electronics and chemistry to separate cells of diagnostic interest and then quantify and characterize them, allowing clinicians to study formed elements in blood (such as red and white blood cells and platelets).  The business  flow cytometry products rapidly sort, identify, categorize and characterize multiple types of cells in suspension, allowing clinicians to determine cell types and characteristics and analyze specific cell populations based on molecular differences.  The business also offers genome profiling services. 
                
    our microbiology systems are used for the identification of bacteria and antibiotic susceptibility testing (ID/AST) from human clinical samples, to detect and quantify bacteria related to microbial infections in urine, blood, and other body fluids, and to detect infections such as urinary tract infections, pneumonia and wound infections.  Our technology enables direct testing of clinical isolates to ensure reliable detection of resistance to antibiotics. 
                
    we also offer systems and workflow solutions that allow laboratories to automate a number of steps from the pre-analytical through post-analytical stages including sample barcoding/information tracking, centrifugation, aliquotting, storage and conveyance.  These systems along with the analyzers described above are controlled through laboratory level software that enables laboratory managers to monitor samples, results and lab efficiency. 
       7 

     Table of Contents  

   Typical users of the business  clinical lab products include hospitals, physician s offices, veterinary laboratories, reference laboratories and pharmaceutical clinical trial laboratories. 
  Our acute care diagnostics business is a leading worldwide provider of instruments, software and related consumables and services that are used in both laboratory and point-of-care environments to rapidly measure critical parameters, including blood gases, electrolytes, metabolites and cardiac markers, as well as for anemia and high-sensitivity glucose testing.  Typical users of these products include hospital central laboratories, intensive care units, hospital operating rooms, hospital emergency rooms,  physician s office laboratories and blood banks. 
  Our pathology diagnostics business is a leading histology company in the anatomical pathology market, offering a comprehensive suite of instrumentation and related consumables used across the entire workflow of a pathology laboratory.  Our pathology diagnostics products include minimally invasive, vacuum-assisted breast biopsy instruments; tissue embedding, processing and slicing (microtomes) instruments and related reagents and consumables; chemical and immuno-staining instruments, reagents, antibodies and consumables; slide coverslipping and slide/cassette marking instruments; and imaging instrumentation including slide scanners, microscopes, cameras and software solutions to store, share and analyze pathology images digitally.  Typical users of these products include pathologists, lab managers and researchers. 
  Customers in the diagnostics industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, the scope of tests that can be performed, the accuracy and speed of the product, the product s ability to enhance productivity, total cost of ownership and access to a highly qualified service and support network as well as the other factors described under   Competition.   Our diagnostics business generally markets its products under the APERIO, BECKMAN COULTER, HEMOCUE, IRIS, LEICA BIOSYSTEMS, MAMMATOME, RADIOMETER and SURGIPATH brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.  The business sells to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and to a lesser extent through independent distributors. 
  Life Sciences 
  We established our life sciences business in 2005 through the acquisition of Leica Microsystems, and have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in 2010 and Beckman Coulter in 2011.  The life sciences business consists of the following businesses. 
  Our microscopy business is a leading global provider of professional microscopes designed to manipulate, preserve and capture images of and enhance the user s visualization and analysis of microscopic structures.  Our microscopy products include: 
             
    laser scanning (confocal) microscopes; 
                
    compound microscopes and related equipment; 
                
    surgical and other stereo microscopes; and  
                
    specimen preparation products for electron microscopy. 
     Typical users of these products include research, medical and surgical professionals operating in research and pathology laboratories, academic settings and surgical theaters. 
  Our mass spectrometry business is a leading global provider of high-end mass spectrometers.  Mass spectrometry is a technique for identifying, analyzing and quantifying elements, chemical compounds and biological molecules, individually or in complex mixtures.  Our products utilize various combinations of quadrupole, time-of-flight and ion trap technologies, and are typically used in conjunction with a liquid chromatography instrument.  Our mass spectrometer systems are used in numerous applications such as drug discovery and clinical development of therapeutics as well as in basic research, clinical testing, food and beverage quality testing and environmental testing.  To support our installations around the world, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our global services network.  Typical users of our mass spectrometry products include molecular biologists, bioanalytical chemists, toxicologists, and forensic scientists as well as quality assurance and quality control technicians.  We also provide high-performance bioanalytical measurement systems, including microplate readers, automated cellular screening products and associated reagents, and imaging software.  Typical users of these products include biologists and chemists engaged in research and drug discovery, who use these products to determine electrical or chemical activity in cell samples. 
  We also offer workflow instruments and consumables that help researchers analyze genomic, protein and cellular information.  Key product areas include sample preparation equipment such as centrifugation and capillary electrophoresis instrumentation and consumables; liquid handling automation instruments and associated consumables; flow cytometry instrumentation and associated antibodies and reagents; and particle characterization instrumentation.  Researchers use the business' products to  
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   study biological function in the pursuit of basic research, as well as therapeutic and diagnostic development.  Typical users of these products include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions and in some cases industrial manufacturers. 
  Customers in the life sciences industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, innovation (particularly productivity and sensitivity improvements), the product s capacity to enhance productivity, product performance and ergonomics, access to a service and support network and the other factors described under   Competition.   Our life sciences business generally markets its products under the AB SCIEX, BECKMAN COULTER, LEICA MICROSYSTEMS and MOLECULAR DEVICES brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, Australia, Asia and North America.  The business sells to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and to a lesser extent through independent distributors. 
  DENTAL 
  Our Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile.  We are a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and are dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity.    2014   sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 51%; Europe, 32%; Asia/Australia, 11% and all other regions, 6%. 
  We entered the dental business in 2004 through the acquisitions of KaVo and Gendex and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Sybron Dental Specialties in 2006, PaloDEx Group Oy in 2009 and Nobel Biocare in 2014.  Today, our dental businesses develop, manufacture and market the following dental consumables and dental equipment: 
             
    implant systems and dental prosthetics; 
                
    orthodontic bracket systems and lab products; 
                
    endodontic systems and related consumables; 
                
    restorative materials and instruments including rotary burrs, impression materials, bonding agents and cements; 
                
    infection prevention products; 
                
    digital imaging systems and software and other visualization and magnification systems; 
                
    air and electric handpieces and associated consumables; and 
                
    treatment units. 
     Typical customers and users of these products include general dentists, dental specialists, dental hygienists, dental laboratories and other oral health professionals, as well as educational, medical and governmental entities.  Dental professionals choose dental products based on a number of factors including product performance, the product s capacity to enhance productivity and the other factors described under   Competition.   Our dental products are marketed primarily under the DEXIS, GENDEX, iCAT, IMPLANT DIRECT, INSTRUMENTARIUM DENTAL, KAVO, KERR, NOBEL BIOCARE, ORMCO, PELTON   CRANE, PENTRON, SOREDEX, SYBRON ENDO and TOTAL CARE brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, North America, South America and Asia.  Sales are primarily made through independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, through direct sales personnel. 
  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES 
  Our Industrial Technologies solutions help protect the world s food supply, improve packaging design and quality, verify pharmaceutical dosages and authenticity and power innovative machines.  Our product identification business develops and manufactures equipment, consumables and software for various printing, marking, coding, design and color management applications on consumer and industrial products.  Our automation business provides mechanical and electromechanical motion control solutions for the automation market.    2014   sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 45%; Europe, 30%; Asia/Australia, 17% and all other regions, 8%.  Our Industrial Technologies segment consists of the following lines of business. 
    9 

     Table of Contents  

   Product Identification 
  We entered the product identification market through the acquisition of Videojet in 2002, and have expanded our product and geographic coverage through various subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Willett International Limited in 2003, Linx Printing Technologies PLC in 2005, EskoArtwork in 2011 and X-Rite in 2012.  Our product identification businesses design, manufacture, and market the following products and services: 
             
    we provide a variety of equipment used to print bar codes, date codes, lot codes and other information on primary and secondary packaging.  Our equipment can apply high-quality alphanumeric codes, logos and graphics to a wide range of surfaces at a variety of line speeds, angles and locations on a product or package.   
                
    we are a leading global supplier of integrated solutions for packaging, sign and display finishing, commercial printing and professional publishing.  We provide software for artwork creation, structural design, workflow automation, quality assurance and online collaboration, flexo computer-to-plate imagers and digital finishing systems.  
                
    we provide innovative color solutions through measurement systems, software, color standards and related services.  Our expertise in inspiring, selecting, measuring, formulating, communicating and matching color helps users improve the quality and effectiveness of their products and reduce costs. 
     Typical users of the product identification business  products include food and beverage manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, retailers, commercial printing, packaging and mailing operations, graphic design firms, and paints, plastics and textile manufacturers.  Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including printer speed and accuracy, equipment uptime and reliable operation without interruption, ease of maintenance, service coverage and the other factors described under   Competition.   Our product identification products are primarily marketed under the ESKO, FOBA, LINX, PANTONE, VIDEOJET and X-RITE brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors. 
  Automation 
  We entered the automation control industry through the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Company in 1998, and subsequently expanded our product and geographic breadth with the acquisitions of American Precision Industries, Kollmorgen Corporation and the motion businesses of Warner Electric Company in 2000 and Thomson Industries in 2002, among others.  Our automation businesses provide a wide range of electromechanical motion control products including: 
             
    standard and custom motors; 
                
    drives; 
                
    controls; and 
                
    mechanical components (such as ball screws, linear bearings, clutches/brakes, and linear actuators). 
     These products are sold in various precision motion markets such as the markets for packaging equipment, medical equipment, robotics and circuit board assembly equipment.  Customers are typically systems integrators who use our products in production and packaging lines and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products into their machines and systems.  Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including product performance, the comprehensiveness of the supplier s product offering, the geographic coverage offered by the supplier and the other factors described under   Competition.   Our automation products are marketed under a variety of brands, including DYNAPAR, HENGSTLER, KOLLMORGEN, PORTESCAP and THOMSON.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors. 
  Other Businesses 
  Our sensors   controls products include instruments that monitor, sense and control discrete manufacturing variables such as temperature, position, quantity, level, flow and time.  Users of these products span a wide variety of manufacturing markets.  Certain businesses included in this group also make and sell instruments, controls and monitoring systems used by the electric utility industry to monitor their transmission and distribution systems.  These products are marketed under a variety of brands, including GEMS SENSORS, IRIS POWER, QUALITROL, SERVERON, SETRA and WEST.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors. 
  Our energetic materials business designs, manufactures, and markets energetic material systems.  Typical users of these products include systems integrators and prime contractors.  Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including the supplier s experience with the particular technology or application and the other factors described under  
    10 

     Table of Contents  

     Competition.   These products are typically marketed under the PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC ENERGETIC MATERIALS COMPANY brand.   
  Jacobs Vehicle Systems is a leading worldwide supplier of supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles, selling JAKE BRAKE brand engine retarders for class 6 through 8 vehicles and bleeder and exhaust brakes for class 2 through 7 vehicles.  Customers are primarily major manufacturers of class 2 through class 8 vehicles, and sales are typically made through our direct sales personnel. 
  Manufacturing facilities of our sensors   controls, energetic materials and engine retarder businesses are located in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. 
  ************************************ 
  The following discussion includes information common to all of our segments. 
  Materials 
  Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, plastics and other petroleum-based products.  Prices of oil and gas also affect our costs for freight and utilities.  We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world.  No single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications or qualifications there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components.  We utilize a number of techniques to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to our supply chain, including in certain cases the use of safety stock, alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources.  During   2014   we had no raw material shortages that had a material effect on our business.  For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Intellectual Property 
  We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others.  Although in aggregate our intellectual property is important to our operations, we do not consider any single patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or license to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole.  From time to time we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights.  For a discussion of risks related to our intellectual property, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   All capitalized brands and product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, Danaher. 
  Competition 
  Although our businesses generally operate in highly competitive markets, our competitive position cannot be determined accurately in the aggregate or by segment since none of our competitors offer all of the same product and service lines or serve all of the same markets as we do.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including well-established regional competitors, competitors who are more specialized than we are in particular markets, as well as larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research, and financial capabilities.  We are facing increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new, large companies into certain markets, the entry of competitors based in low-cost manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets.  The number of competitors varies by product and service line.  Our management believes that we have a market leadership position in many of the markets we serve.  Key competitive factors vary among our businesses and product and service lines, but include the specific factors noted above with respect to each particular business and typically also include price, quality, delivery speed, service and support, innovation, distribution network, breadth of product, service and software offerings and brand name recognition.  For a discussion of risks related to competition, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Seasonal Nature of Business 
  General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve.  For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months, sales to the United States government are typically stronger in the third calendar quarter, medical and capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter and sales to OEMs are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products.  However, as a whole, we are not subject to material seasonality. 
    11 

     Table of Contents  

   Working Capital 
  We maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs.  There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items.  In addition, our sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our competitors. 
  Backlog 
  The following sets forth the unfulfilled orders attributable to each of our five segments as of December 31 ($ in millions): 

We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders as of   December 31, 2014   will be delivered to customers within three to four months of such date.  Given the relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover that are characteristic of most of our products and the shortening of product life cycles, we believe that backlog is indicative of short-term revenue performance but not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 
  Employee Relations 
  As of   December 31, 2014  , we employed approximately 71,000 persons, of whom approximately 29,000 were employed in the United States and approximately 42,000 were employed outside of the United States.  Of our United States employees, approximately 1,400 were hourly-rated, unionized employees.  Outside the United States, we have government-mandated collective bargaining arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where many of our employees are represented by unions and/or works councils.  For a discussion of risks related to employee relations, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Research and Development 
  The following sets forth our research and development expenditures over each of the last three years ended December 31, by segment and in the aggregate ($ in millions): 

We conduct research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products, enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of our existing products and expanding the applications for which uses of our products are appropriate.  Our research and development efforts include internal initiatives and those that use licensed or acquired technology.  The Company generally conducts research and development activities on a business-by-business basis, primarily in North America, Europe and Asia.  We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as we seek to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve our competitive position.  For a discussion of the risks related to the need to develop and commercialize new products and product enhancements, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   Customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in   2014  ,   2013   or   2012  . 
    12 

     Table of Contents  

   Government Contracts 
  Although the substantial majority of our revenue in   2014   was from customers other than governmental entities, each of our segments has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities.  As a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with governments.  For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Regulatory Matters 
  We face extensive government regulation both within and outside the United States relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of our products, software and services.  The following sections describe certain significant regulations that we are subject to.  These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with.  For a description of the risks related to the regulations that our businesses are subject to, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Environmental Laws and Regulations 
  For a discussion of the environmental laws and regulations that our operations, products and services are subject to and other environmental contingencies, please refer to Note 16 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.   For a discussion of risks related to compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and risks related to past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Medical Device and Other Healthcare Regulations 
  Certain of our products are classified as medical devices under the United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the  FDCA ).  The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ).  Our medical device products are also regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries where our products are sold. 
  The FDA s regulatory requirements include: 
             
    Establishment Registration  .  We must register with the FDA each facility where regulated products are developed or manufactured.  The FDA periodically inspects these facilities. 
                
    Marketing Authorization  .  We must obtain FDA authorization to begin marketing a regulated, 510(k)-non-exempted product in the United States.  For some of our products, this authorization is obtained by submitting a 510(k) pre-market notification, which generally provides data on the performance of the product to allow the FDA to determine substantial equivalence to a product already in commercial distribution in the United States.  Other of our products must go through a formal pre-market approval process which includes the review of non-clinical laboratory studies and clinical investigations, as well as an inspection by the FDA prior to market approval. 
                
    Quality Systems  .  We are required to establish a quality system that includes procedures for ensuring regulated products are developed, manufactured and distributed in accordance with specified standards.  We also must establish procedures for investigating and responding to customer complaints regarding the performance of regulated products. 
                
    Labeling  .  The labeling for the products must contain specified information.  In some cases, the FDA must review and approve the labeling and any quality assurance protocols specified in the labeling. 
                
    Imports and Exports  .  The FDCA establishes requirements for importing products into and exporting products from the United States.  In general, any limitations on importing and exporting products apply only to products that have not received marketing authorization. 
                
    Post-Market Reporting  .  After regulated products have been distributed to customers, we may receive product complaints requiring us to investigate and report to the FDA certain events involving the products.  We also must notify the FDA when we conduct recalls involving our products. 
     In the European Union, a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with such approval process is represented by the CE mark.  To obtain a CE mark, medical devices must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (known as the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes.  An organization accredited by an EU Member State to certify whether a product meets the essential requirements, also known as a notified body, assesses the quality management systems of the device s manufacturer and the device s conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive or in vitro diagnostic directive.  Our medical device companies are also subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance.  The competent authorities of the EU countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research  
    13 

     Table of Contents  

   for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market.  We are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. 
  A number of other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China and Japan, have also adopted or are in the process of adopting regulations and standards for medical devices sold in those countries. 
  We are also subject to various healthcare related laws regulating fraud and abuse, pricing and sales and marketing practices and the privacy and security of health information, including the United States federal regulations described below.  Many states, foreign countries and supranational bodies have also adopted laws and regulations similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, the federal regulations discussed above and below. 
             
    The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. 
                
    The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) prohibits knowingly and willfully (1) executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors, or (2) falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services.  In addition, HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, also restricts the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, mandates the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of patient-identifiable health information and requires us to report certain security breaches with respect to such information. 
                
    The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program.  The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. 
                
    The Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires manufacturers of medical devices covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure.  Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. 
     In addition, certain of our products utilize radioactive material, and we are subject to federal, state, local and non-U.S. regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of these materials.  For a discussion of risks related to our regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries, and the other regulatory regimes referenced above, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Export/Import Compliance 
  We are required to comply with various U.S. export/import control and economic sanctions laws, including: 
             
    the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, imposes license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services (which are items specifically designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List); 
                
    the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export or re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that potentially have both commercial and military applications); 
                
    the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and 
                
    the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. 
       14 

     Table of Contents  

   Other nations  governments have implemented similar export and import control regulations, which may affect our operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions.  For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  International Operations 
  Our products and services are available worldwide, and our principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia.  We also have operations around the world, and this geographic diversity allows us to draw on the skills of a worldwide workforce, provides greater stability to our operations, allows us to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for products.  In addition, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to continue developing products and sales models that successfully target emerging markets (also referred to in this Report as  high-growth markets ).  The Company defines high-growth markets as developing markets of the world experiencing rapid growth in gross domestic product and infrastructure which includes Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia (with the exception of Japan and Australia). 
  The table below describes annual revenue derived from customers outside the United States as a percentage of total annual revenue for the year ended December 31, by segment and in the aggregate, based on geographic destination: 

The table below describes long-lived assets located outside the United States as of December 31, as a percentage of total long-lived assets, by segment and in the aggregate (including assets held for sale): 

For additional information related to revenues and long-lived assets by country, please refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for information regarding deferred taxes by geography, please refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The manner in which our products and services are sold outside the United States differs by business and by region.  Most of our sales in non-U.S. markets are made by our subsidiaries located outside the U.S., though we also sell directly from the U.S. into non-U.S. markets through various representatives and distributors and, in some cases, directly.  In countries with low sales volumes, we generally sell through representatives and distributors. 
  Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and information about the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our business is set forth in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   For a discussion of risks related to our non-U.S. operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Major Customers 
  No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in   2014  ,   2013   or   2012  . 
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   Available Information 
  We maintain an internet website at www.danaher.com.  We make available free of charge on the website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC.  Our Internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 
    
    ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
    
  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.  Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 
  Conditions in the global economy, the markets we serve and the financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions.  Slower global economic growth, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt, volatility in the currency and credit markets, high levels of unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes in government fiscal and monetary policies, government deficit reduction and budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, other austerity measures and other challenges that affect the global economy adversely affect the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: 
             
    reducing demand for our products (in this Item 1A, references to products also includes software) and services, limiting the financing available to our customers and suppliers, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; 
                
    increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; 
                
    increasing price competition in our served markets;  
                
    supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products;  
                
    increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and the risk that we may not be able to fully recover the value of other assets such as real estate and tax assets; and 
                
    increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us. 
     Although we have been able to continue accessing the commercial paper and other capital markets through the date of this report, there can be no assurances that such markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. 
  If growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve slows for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets or if improvements in the global economy don't benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements could be adversely affected. 
  Our restructuring actions could have long-term adverse effects on our business.    
  In recent years, we have implemented multiple, significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure, and we may engage in similar restructuring activities in the future.  These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) reduce our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and services, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly if demand for our products increases.  In addition, delays in implementing planned restructuring activities or other productivity improvements, unexpected costs or failure to meet  
    16 

     Table of Contents  

   targeted improvements may diminish the operational or financial benefits we realize from such actions.  Any of the circumstances described above could adversely impact our business and financial statements. 
  Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. 
  Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution).  Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast.  Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our financial statements.  Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns.  In addition, in certain of our businesses demand depends on customers' capital spending budgets as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy and government budget dynamics as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities.  Demand for our products and services is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in incentive programs, new product introductions and customer inventory levels.  Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period. 
  We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share.  Even if we compete effectively, we may be required to reduce prices for our products and services.    
  Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; please see  Item 1. Business - Competition  for additional details.  In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories and penetrating new markets, including high-growth markets.  Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our financial statements, and our expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses. 
  Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new and enhanced products and services based on technological innovation. 
  We generally sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards.  If we do not develop innovative new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, our offerings will become obsolete over time and our competitive position and financial statements will suffer.  Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: 
             
    correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; 
                
    allocate our research and development funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; 
                
    anticipate and respond to our competitors' development of new products and services and technological innovations; 
                
    differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings and avoid commoditization; 
                
    innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; 
                
    obtain adequate intellectual property rights with respect to key technologies before our competitors do; 
                
    successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; 
                
    obtain necessary regulatory approvals of appropriate scope, including with respect to medical device products by demonstrating satisfactory clinical results where applicable; and 
                
    stimulate customer demand for and convince customers to adopt new technologies. 
     In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability.  Even if we successfully innovate and develop new and enhanced products and services, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.  In addition, promising new offerings may fail to reach  
    17 

     Table of Contents  

   the market or realize only limited commercial success because of real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. 
  Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. 
  We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy.  In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree.  Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.  In addition, though we rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier standards of conduct, material violations of such standards of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our financial statements. 
  Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. 
  Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies.  We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price.  Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms.  In addition, competition for acquisitions may result in higher purchase prices.  Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. 
  Our acquisition of businesses, joint ventures and strategic relationships could negatively impact our financial statements. 
  As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses and enter into joint ventures and other strategic relationships in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) for additional details.  These acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic relationships involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, compliance and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial statements: 
             
    any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable. 
                
    we may incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic relationships. 
                
    acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic relationships could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in any given period, or over the long-term. 
                
    pre-closing and post-closing earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period. 
                
    acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic relationships could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address. 
                
    we could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other controls and systems and retaining key employees and customers. 
                
    we may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition, joint venture or strategic relationship. 
                
    we may assume by acquisition, joint venture or strategic relationship unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company's activities.  The realization of any of these liabilities or  
       18 

     Table of Contents  

   deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations. 
             
    in connection with acquisitions and joint ventures, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results. 
                
    as a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet.  If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets. 
                
    we may have interests that diverge from those of our joint venture partners or other strategic partners and we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or other strategic relationship in the manner we believe is most appropriate, exposing us to additional risk.  
     The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities. 
  Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it.  In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities.  We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Divestitures or other dispositions could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest, spin-off, split-off or otherwise dispose of businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment.  These transactions pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business.  For example, when we decide to sell or otherwise dispose of a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell or dispose a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not become satisfied.  In addition, divestitures or other dispositions may dilute the Company's earnings per share, have other adverse financial and accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers.  In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold or disposed.  The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. 
    
  We are pursuing a plan to distribute ownership of our communications business to Danaher shareholders and merge the business into a subsidiary of NetScout in a tax-free transaction.  The proposed transaction may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits. 
  Danaher has announced plans to distribute ownership of its communications business to Danaher shareholders in either a spin-off transaction, a split-off transaction, or a combination split-off and spin-off and merge the business into a subsidiary of NetScout.  Both the distribution and merger are expected to qualify as tax-free transactions to Danaher and its shareholders, except to the extent that cash is paid to Danaher stockholders in lieu of fractional shares.  Unanticipated developments, including delays in obtaining or satisfying (or failure to obtain or satisfy) tax rulings, regulatory approvals, NetScout shareholder approval and other conditions to closing, and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes, could delay or prevent the proposed transaction or cause the proposed transaction to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected.  On December 24, 2014, NetScout received a request for additional information ( second request ) from the U.S. Department of Justice.  The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act until 30 days after both NetScout and Danaher have substantially complied with the request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the U.S. Department of Justice.  Even if the transaction is completed, some or all of the anticipated value and benefits therefrom may not be achieved.  Expenses incurred to accomplish the proposed transaction may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate.  Executing the proposed transaction also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business.  Following the proposed separation and merger, the combined value of the common stock of Danaher and the shares of common stock of NetScout issued as consideration for our communications business may not be equal to or greater than what the value of Danaher s common stock would have been had the proposed transaction not occurred. 
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information.  Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our reputation and financial statements. 
  Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA, by comparable agencies of other countries and regions and by regulations governing radioactive or other hazardous materials (or the manufacture and sale of products containing such materials).  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals (such as 510(k) clearance) for our new products or modifications to (or additional indications or uses of) existing products within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and if we do obtain such clearance or approval it may be time-consuming, costly and subject to restrictions.  Our ability to obtain such regulatory clearances or approvals will depend on many factors, for example our ability to obtain the necessary clinical trial results, and the process for obtaining such clearances or approvals could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained.  Failure to obtain such regulatory clearances or approvals before marketing our products (or before implementing modifications to or promoting additional indications or uses of our products), other violations of these regulations, real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) and unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials can lead to FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, recalls, seizures of adulterated or misbranded products, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, narrowing of permitted uses for a product, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions.  We are also subject to various laws regulating fraud and abuse, pricing and sales and marketing practices in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information, including the federal regulations described in  Item 1 - Business - Regulatory Matters.   Many states and foreign countries have also adopted laws and regulations similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, such federal regulations.  For more information regarding regulations we are subject to please see  Item 1 - Business - Regulatory Matters.  
  Failure to comply with the regulations described above could result in the adverse effects referenced below under  Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation.   Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. 
  The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, which could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, including the following: 
             
    many of our customers, and the end-users to whom our customers supply products, rely on government funding of and reimbursement for healthcare products and services and research activities.  The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the  PPACA ), healthcare austerity measures in other countries and other potential healthcare reform changes and government austerity measures may reduce the amount of government funding or reimbursement available to customers or end-users of our products and services and/or the volume of medical procedures using our products and services.  Global economic uncertainty or deterioration can also adversely impact government funding and reimbursement. 
                
    the PPACA imposes a 2.3% excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States as well as reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers. 
                
    governmental and private healthcare providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the delivery of healthcare services, forming group purchasing organizations to improve their purchasing leverage and using competitive bid processes to procure healthcare products and services. 
     These changes as well as other impacts from market demand, government regulations, third party coverage and reimbursement policies and societal pressures have increased our tax liabilities and may cause participants in the healthcare industry and related industries that we serve to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our products services from governmental agencies or third-party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our products and services and increase our compliance and other costs.  In addition, we may be unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, and even if we do enter into such contracts they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability.  All of the factors described above could adversely affect our financial statements. 
    20 

     Table of Contents  

   Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our reputation and financial statements. 
  Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes.  We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations.  We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program has been or will at all times be effective.  Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation.  In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements. 
  In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.  We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules.  For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our reputation and financial statements or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or remediation in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.  However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2014 will have a material effect on our financial statements. 
  Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. 
  In addition to the environmental, health, safety, healthcare, medical device, anticorruption and other regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional levels, including the following: 
             
    we are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and subsidiaries.  In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies.  In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.  Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. 
                
    we also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with government entities.  The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts.  For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts.  Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract.  Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract.  We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts.   
     These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with.  The regulations we are subject to have tended to become more stringent over time and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  We, our representatives and the industries in which we operate may at times be under review and/or investigation by regulatory authorities.  Failure to comply (or any alleged or perceived failure to comply) with the regulations referenced above or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and any such failure or alleged failure (or becoming subject to a regulatory enforcement investigation) could also damage to our reputation, disrupt our business, limit our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, result in loss of customers and disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies and cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.  Compliance with these and other regulations may also affect our returns on investment, require us to incur significant expenses or modify our business model or impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our business.  Our products and operations are also often  
    21 

     Table of Contents  

   subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our financial statements.  For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to  Item 1. Business - Regulatory Matters.  
  We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets. 
  As of December 31, 2014, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately   $24.3 billion  .  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines, or increases in associated discount rates may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets.  Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.   
  Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements.  Increased strength of the U.S. dollar (such as the strengthening that has taken place in recent periods) increases the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices.  Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services we purchase overseas.  Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects.  In addition, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than the business' functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects.  The Company also faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. 
  Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities or assessments could affect our profitability.  In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. 
  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Please see the MD A for a discussion of the factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and decrease our profitability in any period.  The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period.  In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities, such as the audits described in the MD A and the Company's financial statements.  Due to the potential for changes to tax laws (or changes to the interpretation thereof) and the ambiguity of tax laws, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our intercompany arrangements and other factors, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments.  If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities and our financial statements could be adversely affected.  If we determine to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that have been considered permanently re-invested under existing accounting standards, it could also increase our effective tax rate.  In addition, any significant change to the tax system in the U.S. or in other jurisdictions, including changes in the taxation of international income, could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture-related matters, as well as regulatory investigations or enforcement.  We may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses.  These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and/or injunctive relief.  The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our operations and financial statements.  Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses.  In addition, developments in proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, record estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments.  Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial statements in any particular period.  We cannot  
    22 

     Table of Contents  

   assure you that our liabilities in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation.  However, based on our experience, current information and applicable law, we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2014 will have a material effect on our financial statements. 
  If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. 
  We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business.  The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us.  In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented, designed-around or becoming subject to compulsory licensing, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected.  In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons, or countries may require compulsory licensing of our intellectual property.  We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights.  Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. 
  Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. 
  From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation.  Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation.  Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation.  In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements.  Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products (including software) or services could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  Manufacturing or design defects or "bugs" in, unanticipated use of, safety or quality issues (or the perception of such issues) with respect to, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products and services that we make or sell (including items that we source from third parties) can lead to personal injury, death, property damage or other liability.  These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts, result in the removal of a product or service from the market and result in product liability or similar claims being brought against us.  Recalls, removals and product liability and similar claims (regardless of their validity or ultimate outcome) can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services. 
  The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if we directly or indirectly encounter problems manufacturing products, our reputation, business and financial statements could suffer. 
  The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.  Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters and environmental factors, and if not discovered before the product is released to market could result in recalls and product liability exposure.  Because of the time required to approve and license certain regulated manufacturing facilities, an alternative manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace such production capacity.  Any of these manufacturing problems could result in significant costs and liability, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. 
    23 

     Table of Contents  

   Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial statements. 
  As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately   $3.5 billion   in outstanding indebtedness.  In addition, based on the availability under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2014, we had the ability to incur an additional $1.7 billion of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under our outstanding commercial paper facilities.  Our debt level and related debt service obligations can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.  We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly to finance acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that our cost of funding will not substantially increase.   
  Our current revolving credit facility and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us; for more information please refer to the MD A.  If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial statements.  In addition, any failure to maintain the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies would adversely affect our cost of funds and could adversely affect our liquidity and access to the capital markets.  If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. 
  Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance, purchasing patterns or inventory levels of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users.  Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors' products or compete with us directly, and if they favor competing products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively.  Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our financial statements.      The levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners, and changes in those levels, can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period.  In addition, the consolidation of distributors and customers in certain of our served industries could adversely impact our profitability. 
  Our financial results are subject to fluctuations in the cost and availability of commodities that we use in our operations. 
  As discussed in  Item 1. Business - Materials,  our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of components, raw materials and other commodities.  Prices for and availability of these components, raw materials and other commodities have fluctuated significantly in the past.  Any sustained interruption in the supply of these items could adversely affect our business.  In addition, due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity prices rise we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices.  If we are unable to fully recover higher commodity costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our financial statements could be adversely affected.   
  If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity or the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changes in market conditions and customer demand, our profitability may suffer.  In addition, our reliance upon sole or limited sources of supply for certain materials, components and services could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. 
  We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations.  Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality.  During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices.  If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed, our costs may increase or we may breach our contractual commitments and incur liabilities.  Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands.  If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer. 
    24 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers (including freight carriers) for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design.  If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply.  The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, bankruptcy or exiting of the business for other reasons, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities and external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, war, terrorist actions, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes.  Any of these factors could result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies. 
  Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements.  Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our profitability. 
  Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or services or increase our expenses. 
  We compete in markets in which we and our customers must comply with supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs, privacy and electronic communications.  We develop, configure and market our products and services to meet customer needs created by these regulations.  These regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  Any significant change in any of these regulations (or in the interpretation or application thereof) could reduce demand for, increase our costs of producing or delay the introduction of new or modified products and services, or could restrict our existing activities, products and services.  In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations.  In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, or the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect demand.  In addition, regulatory deadlines may result in substantially different levels of demand for our products and services from period to period. 
  Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. 
  We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements.  We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity, results of operations and reputation. 
  International economic, political, legal, compliance and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements. 
  In 2014, approximately 57% of our sales were derived from customers outside the U.S.  In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the U.S.  Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S. and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., particularly in the high-growth markets.  Our international business (and particularly our business in high-growth markets) is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including: 
             
    interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers;  
                
    differences in terms of sale, including payment terms; 
                
    local product preferences and product requirements; 
                
    changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, such as the recent devaluation of the Russian ruble,  the effects of the international sanctions that have recently been imposed upon Russia and the elimination of the Swiss Franc s cap against the Euro; 
                
    trade protection measures, embargoes and import or export restrictions and requirements; 
                
    unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws; 
                
    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; 
                
    the potential for nationalization of enterprises; 
                
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; 
       25 

     Table of Contents  

limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights; 
                
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; 
                
    differing labor regulations; 
                
    difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and 
                
    differing protection of intellectual property. 
     Any of these risks could negatively affect our financial statements and growth. 
  If we suffer loss to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed. 
  Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, public health crisis, war, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters.  If any of these facilities, supply chains or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses.  The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to protect us against losses. 
  A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. 
  We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities.  These systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate.  In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers.  Like many multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future as such attacks become more sophisticated and frequent.  Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers  intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations.  Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan assets and changes in discount rates may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements.  In addition, upward pressure on the cost of providing healthcare coverage to current employees and retirees may increase our future funding obligations and adversely affect our financial statements. 
    
    ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  Not applicable. 
    
    26 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
  Our corporate headquarters are located in Washington, D.C. in a facility that we lease.  As of   December 31, 2014  , we had facilities in over 50 countries, including approximately 273 significant manufacturing and distribution facilities.  139 of these facilities are located in the United States in over 25 states and 134 are located outside the United States in over 30 other countries, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, the rest of North America, South America and Australia.  These facilities cover approximately 25 million square feet, of which approximately 14 million square feet are owned and approximately 11 million square feet are leased.  Particularly outside the United States, facilities often serve more than one business segment and may be used for multiple purposes, such as administration, sales, manufacturing, warehousing and/or distribution.  The number of significant facilities by business segment is: 
               
    Life Sciences   Diagnostics, 83; 
                 
    Industrial Technologies, 59. 
     We consider our facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities.  We believe our properties and equipment have been well-maintained.  Please refer to Note 15 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to our lease commitments. 
    
    ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  Not applicable. 
    
    ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
    
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of our executive officers as of   February 9, 2015  .  All of our executive officers hold office at the pleasure of our Board of Directors.  Unless otherwise stated, the positions indicated are Danaher positions. 

27 

     Table of Contents  

   Steven M. Rales is a co-founder of Danaher and has served on Danaher s Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Danaher s Chairman of the Board since 1984.  He was also CEO of the Company from 1984 to 1990.  In addition, for more than the past five years he has been a principal in a private business entity in the area of film production.  Mr. Rales is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales. 
  Mitchell P. Rales is a co-founder of Danaher and has served on Danaher s Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Chairman of the Executive Committee of Danaher since 1984.  He was also President of the Company from 1984 to 1990.  Mr. Rales is also a member of the board of directors of Colfax Corporation, and is a brother of Steven M. Rales. 
    
  Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. has served on Danaher s Board of Directors and as Danaher s President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2014 after serving as Executive Vice President from 2006 to April 2014 and as Executive Vice President - CEO Designate from April 2014 to September 2014. 
  Daniel L. Comas has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005. 
    
  Mark A. Beck has served as Executive Vice President since joining Danaher in April 2014.  Prior to joining Danaher, Mr. Beck served for eighteen years at Corning, Inc., a manufacturer of specialty glass, ceramics and related materials, in functions including business development, manufacturing strategy, marketing and general management, including most recently as Executive Vice President, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences from January 2010 to March 2014. 
  William K. Daniel II has served as Executive Vice President since 2008. 
  James A. Lico has served as Executive Vice President since 2005. 
  James H. Ditkoff has served as Senior Vice President - Finance and Tax since 2002. 
  Jonathan P. Graham has served as Senior Vice President - General Counsel since 2006. 
  William H. King has served as Senior Vice President - Strategic Development since May 2014 after serving as Vice President - Strategic Development from 2005 until May 2014. 
  Angela S. Lalor has served as Senior Vice President - Human Resources since joining Danaher in April 2012.  Prior to joining Danaher, Ms. Lalor served for twenty-two years in a series of progressively more responsible positions in the human resources department of 3M Company, a global manufacturing company, including most recently as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. 
  Robert S. Lutz has served as Senior Vice President - Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. 
  Daniel A. Raskas has served as Senior Vice President - Corporate Development since February 2010. 
    28 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
    
    ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DHR.  As of   February 9, 2015  , there were approximately 3,184 holders of record of our common stock.  The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends declared per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows: 

(1)     The Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in the first quarter of 2014 to $0.10 per share.  
    
  Our payment of dividends in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our earnings and other factors.  
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  Neither the Company nor any  affiliated purchaser  repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2014.  On July 16, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors approved a repurchase program (the  2013 Repurchase Program ) authorizing the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Company's common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  There is no expiration date for the 2013 Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company's management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.  The 2013 Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company's equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2014, 20 million shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the 2013 Repurchase Program. 
  Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities 
  During the fourth quarter of   2014  , holders of certain of the Company s Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 ( LYONs ) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of 251,305 shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  In each case, the shares of common stock were issued solely to existing security holders upon conversion of the LYONs pursuant to the exemption from registration provided under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
  Stock Split 
  On May 11, 2010, the Company s Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock split (effected in the form of a dividend by issuing one additional share of common stock for each issued share of common stock) which was paid on June 10, 2010 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 25, 2010.  All prior period share and per share amounts set forth in this report, including earnings per share, dividends per share and the weighted average number of shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for each respective period, have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. 
    
    29 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  ($ in millions, except per share information) 

(a)   
    Includes $34 million ($26 million after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company's electric vehicle systems ("EVS")/hybrid product line and $123 million ($77 million after-tax or $0.11 per diluted share) gain on sale of certain marketable equity securities.  Refer to Notes 3 and 13, respectively, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
               (b)   
    Includes $230 million ($144 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s investment in the Apex Tool Group, LLC ("Apex") joint venture and $202 million ($125 million after-tax or $0.18 per diluted share) gain on sale of certain marketable equity securities.  Refer to Notes 3 and 13, respectively, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
               (c)   
    Includes $149 million ($94 million after-tax or $0.13 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s Accu-Sort and Kollmorgen Electro-Optical businesses.  Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
               (d)   
    Includes $328 million ($202 million after-tax or $0.29 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s Pacific Scientific Aerospace business.  
               (e)   
    Includes $291 million ($232 million after-tax or $0.34 per diluted share) gain on contribution of certain of the Company s hand tools businesses to Apex.  Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

30 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) is designed to provide a reader of Danaher s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management.  The Company s MD A is divided into five sections: 
             
    Overview 
                
    Results of Operations 
                
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
                
    Critical Accounting Estimates 
                
    New Accounting Standards 
     OVERVIEW 
  General 
  Please see  Item 1. Business   General  for a discussion of Danaher s objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value.  Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations.  During   2014  , approximately 57% of Danaher s sales were derived from customers outside the United States.  As a diversified, global business, Danaher s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors.  Danaher s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products and services, typically help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results.  Given the broad range of products manufactured, software and services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company.  The Company s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. 
  As a result of the Company s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company s competitors and increasing regulation.  The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products, services and software with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated environment.  The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company s operations.  
  Business Performance and Outlook 
  While differences exist among the Company s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company s products, software and services increased in   2014   compared to   2013   driving year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses.  The Company s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below also contributed to year-over-year sales growth.  Geographically, year-over-year sales growth rates from existing businesses during   2014   were led primarily by the high-growth markets.  Sales from existing businesses in high-growth markets grew at a mid-single digit rate in 2014 compared to 2013 and sales from high-growth markets represented approximately 26% of the Company's total sales in 2014.  Sales from existing businesses in developed markets grew at a low-single digit rate in 2014 compared to 2013 and were driven by North America and Western Europe.  The Company expects overall sales growth to continue but remains cautious about challenges due to macro-economic and geopolitical uncertainties and global uncertainties related to monetary and fiscal policies.  While individual business results will vary, the Company expects sales from existing businesses to continue to grow on a year-over-year basis during 2015 at a level in line with the growth levels experienced in 2014. 
    31 

       Table of Contents  

   Restructuring Activities 
  Consistent with the Company's approach of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner, in the second half of 2014 the Company initiated actions to improve productivity and reduce costs in its businesses.  The actions, which were substantially completed by   December 31, 2014  , resulted in pre-tax charges of approximately $155 million, the majority of which was incurred in the fourth quarter of   2014  .  The charges, including both employee-related termination costs as well as other termination and exit costs, are expected to result in savings of approximately $125 million in 2015 compared to   2014   expense levels. 
  In addition, the Company incurred $107 million of costs associated with restructuring activities in   2013   which resulted in savings of approximately $75 million in   2014   compared to   2013   expense levels.       
  Acquisitions and Divestitures 
  On December 11, 2014, the Company successfully completed its tender offer for the outstanding shares of common stock of Nobel Biocare Holding AG, acquiring   97%   of the outstanding shares for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately CHF 1.9 billion (approximately   $1.9 billion   based on exchange rates as of the date the shares of common stock were acquired) including debt assumed and net of cash acquired.  Danaher is in the process of acquiring the remaining outstanding Nobel Biocare shares by means of a squeeze-out transaction, as permitted under Swiss law.  Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Nobel Biocare is a world leader in the field of innovative implant-based dental restorations with a portfolio of solutions that include dental implant systems, high-precision individualized prosthetics, biomaterials and digital diagnostics, treatment planning and guided surgery.  Nobel Biocare had revenues of  567 million in 2013 (approximately $780 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2013), and is now part of the Company's Dental segment.  The Company financed the acquisition of Nobel Biocare from available cash. 
  In addition to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, during   2014   the Company acquired   sixteen   businesses for total consideration of approximately   $1.3 billion   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Test   Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences   Diagnostics and Dental segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   sixteen   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $420 million  .  
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2014, Danaher entered into a definitive agreement with NetScout to combine the majority of the Company's Test   Measurement segment's communications business with NetScout (Danaher will retain the data communications cable installation business and the communication service provider (field and test tool systems) business of Fluke Networks and these will become part of the Test   Measurement segment s instruments business following the closing of the transaction).  The transaction will be structured as a distribution of the communications business to Danaher shareholders in either a spin-off transaction, a split-off transaction, or a combination split-off and spin-off, followed by a merger of the communications business with a subsidiary of NetScout for consideration of 62.5 million NetScout shares, subject to adjustment.  Both the distribution and merger are expected to qualify as tax-free transactions to Danaher and its shareholders, except to the extent that cash is paid to Danaher stockholders in lieu of fractional shares.  If Danaher elects a spin-off, all Danaher shareholders will participate pro-rata.  If Danaher elects a split-off, Danaher will conduct an exchange offer pursuant to which its shareholders will elect whether to exchange Danaher shares for common units of the communications business.  If the split-off exchange offer is not fully subscribed, the additional common units of the communications business held by Danaher will be distributed in a spin-off on a pro rata basis to Danaher shareholders.  Danaher will determine which approach it will take prior to closing the transaction and no decision has been made at this time.  At closing, depending on the number of shares of NetScout common stock outstanding, Danaher shareholders will receive approximately 60% of the common shares of NetScout stock outstanding following the combination. 
  The transaction remains subject to approval by NetScout s shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to either the communications business or NetScout.  On December 24, 2014, NetScout received a request for additional information ( second request ) from the U.S. Department of Justice.  The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act until 30 days after both NetScout and Danaher have substantially complied with the request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the U.S. Department of Justice.  Upon the closing of the transaction, the Company will classify the communications business as a discontinued operation in its historical financial statements.  Sales of the communications business to be combined with NetScout represented 22% of the sales of the Test   Measurement segment for the year ended December 31, 2014.  The transaction is expected to be completed in 2015. 
    32 

       Table of Contents  

   In August 2014, the Company completed the divestiture of its electric vehicle systems ("EVS")/hybrid product line for a sale price of   $87 million   in cash.  This product line, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment, had revenues of approximately   $60 million   in 2014 prior to the divestiture and approximately   $100 million   in each of 2013 and 2012.  Operating results of the product line were not significant to segment or overall Company reported results in 2014.  The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of the product line of   $34 million   (  $26 million   after-tax or   $0.04   per diluted share) in its third quarter 2014 results.  Subsequent to the sale, the Company has no continuing involvement in the EVS/hybrid product line.   
  For a discussion of the Company s 2013 and 2012 acquisition and divestiture activity, refer to  Liquidity and Capital Resources   Investing Activities . 
  Sale of Investments 
  During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $167 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pre-tax gain related to these sales of   $123 million   (  $77 million   after-tax or   $0.11   per diluted share).  
    
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Consolidated sales for the year ended   December 31, 2014   increased 4.0% compared to   2013  .  Sales from existing businesses contributed 3.5% growth and sales from acquired businesses contributed 1.5% growth on a year-over-year basis.  The impact of currency translation reduced reported sales by 1.0% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies during   2014   as compared to exchange rate levels during   2013  .  
  Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased 4.5% compared to 2012.  Sales from existing businesses contributed 2.5% growth and sales from acquired businesses contributed 2.5% growth on a year-over-year basis.  The impact of currency translation reduced reported sales by 0.5% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies during 2013 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2012.  
  In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ) but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses and (2) the impact of currency translation.  References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales attributable to certain divested product lines not considered discontinued operations.  The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) and (b) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period.  Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with our performance in prior and future periods and to our peers.  The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under management s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestiture related items because the nature, size and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult.  References to sales volume refer to the impact of both price and unit sales. 
  Operating profit margins were 17.2% for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 17.1% in 2013.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
  2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:  
             
    Higher 2014 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 65 basis points 
                
    The fourth quarter 2013 impairment of intangible assets associated with a technology investment in the communications business - 15 basis points  
       33 

     Table of Contents  

   2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 25 basis points  
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses and acquisition related charges recorded in 2014 associated with the Nobel Biocare acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory, net of the positive effect of the product line disposition in the third quarter of 2014 - 45 basis points  
       
  The Company deems acquisition-related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Company s larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition-related transaction costs typical for the Company in a given period. 
  Operating profit margins were 17.1% for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 17.3% in 2012.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
  2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:  
             
    Higher 2013 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2012 and 2013, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 80 basis points     
     2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2013 of acquired businesses - 40 basis points   
                
    The divestiture of the Apex joint venture in 2013.  Prior to the sale, the Company had accounted for its investment in Apex under the equity method - 40 basis points 
                
    The fourth quarter 2013 impairment of intangible assets associated with a technology investment in the communications business - 15 basis points   
                
    A 2012 gain relating to the resolution of contingencies with respect to a prior disposition of assets - 5 basis points 
     Business Segments 
  Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions): 

TEST   MEASUREMENT 
  The Company s Test   Measurement segment offerings help customers design cutting-edge innovations, keep their businesses up and running and safeguard their network operations.  Danaher's instrument business offers test, measurement and monitoring products that are used in electronic design, manufacturing and advanced technology development, as well as for installation, service and maintenance of electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications.  Danaher's communications business is a leading provider of products and solutions used in the design, deployment, monitoring and security of traditional, virtualized, mobile and cloud-based networks operated by communications service providers, hosting service providers, enterprises and government agencies worldwide.  Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic instruments; service, installation and maintenance professionals; manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and deploy network equipment; and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services.  Also included in the Test   Measurement segment are the Company s mobile tool and wheel service businesses. 
    34 

     Table of Contents  

   Test   Measurement Selected Financial Data  

Components of Sales Growth 

2014   COMPARED TO   2013    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2014 as compared to 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.  On an overall basis, sales from existing businesses in the segment s instruments, mobile tool and wheel service businesses grew during 2014 as compared to 2013.  This growth was more than offset by year-over-year sales declines in the segment's communications businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's instruments business grew at a low-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013, due to increased year-over-year sales of electrical and calibration products, primarily from strong sales of new product offerings.  Geographically, growth was led by increased demand in North America, China, and Western Europe.    
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's communications business declined at a low-double digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013 as certain large North American network management solutions customers are in the process of migrating to next-generation communication network technology infrastructures, and as a result delayed capital spending on their networks.  The communications business is actively working with these customers to support this transition, including by increasing research and development investments to bring to market solutions for these customers  next generation technology requirements.  This decline in North America was slightly offset by growth in Western Europe and the Middle East.  In addition, in the segment s network security product line sales from existing businesses grew year-over-year, led by North America and Western Europe.  The Company expects year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses in the segment's communications businesses for the full-year ending December 31, 2015, but expects sales growth from existing businesses to remain negative on a year-over-year basis in the first quarter of 2015. 
  As noted above, in the fourth quarter of 2014 Danaher entered into a definitive agreement with NetScout to combine Danaher s communications business with NetScout.  See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction. 
  Operating profit margins declined 60 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
    
  2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    2013 impact from the impairment of intangible assets associated with a technology investment in the communications business - 90 basis points 
       35 

     Table of Contents  

   2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    Lower sales volumes from existing businesses with respect to high margin communications sales as well as incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development, sales and marketing growth investments, net of  incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2014 and 2013 - 30 basis points 
                
    Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 60 basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 60 basis points 
     2013   COMPARED TO   2012    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2013 as compared to 2012 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales in the segment's instrument business declined at a low-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012, as lower demand for thermography, calibration and electronic test products more than offset modest increases in demand for industrial products.  Decreased demand in the North American, European and Chinese end markets contributed to the decline in sales.  However, the Company did see demand stabilize during the second half of 2013 as compared to the first half of 2013, particularly in Europe and North America.    
  Sales in the segment's communications business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2013 compared to 2012 with robust year-over-year increase in demand for network security and analysis solutions.  Geographically, strong year-over-year demand in the North America and Latin America regions was somewhat offset by declines in demand in Asia.   
  Operating profit margins declined 110 basis points during 2013 as compared to 2012.  The favorable impacts of higher operating profit margin communication business products comprising a higher percentage of sales in 2013 compared to 2012 and lower year-over-year costs for restructuring and productivity improvement initiatives were offset by lower year-over-year instrument sales volumes and incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments.  In addition, 2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    The fourth quarter 2013 impairment of intangible assets associated with a technology investment in the communications business - 90 basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2013 of acquired businesses - 20 basis points  
     ENVIRONMENTAL 
  The Company s Environmental segment products and services help protect the global water supply, facilitate environmental stewardship, enhance the safety of personal data and improve business efficiencies.  Danaher s water quality business provides instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.  Danaher s retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management.   
  Environmental Selected Financial Data  

36 

     Table of Contents  

   Components of Sales Growth 

2014   COMPARED TO   2013    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2014   as compared with   2013   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s water quality business grew at a mid-single digit rate during   2014   as compared to   2013  .  Sales growth in the analytical instrumentation product line was led primarily by continued strong sales of instruments and related consumables and service in North America, China, Europe and Latin America.  Sales in the business' chemical treatment solutions product line grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to continued sales force investments in the U.S. market, and to a lesser extent, continued international expansion.  Year-over-year sales in the business' ultraviolet water disinfection product line declined during 2014 due to continued weak demand in municipal end markets, primarily in North America and Western Europe.  
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's retail petroleum equipment business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013.  Demand for the business' dispenser systems was particularly strong in North America and China during 2014.  Continued strong demand for point-of-sale systems, service and vapor recovery products in most major geographies also contributed to year-over-year sales growth.  The business expects growth to continue in 2015 as customers upgrade payment systems, primarily in the United States, to comply with upcoming enhanced security requirements based on the EMV global standard.  
  Operating profit margins declined 110 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
    
  2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2014 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2014 and 2013, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 35 basis points  
       
  2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 50 basis points  
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 95 basis points 
       
  Depreciation as a percentage of sales increased during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily as a result of investments in assets leased to customers, largely in businesses acquired during the second half of 2013.  The inclusion of a full year of depreciation expense in 2014 and continued investments in such assets drove the increase.  Depreciation expense as a percentage of sales in the segment in 2015 is expected to be in line with 2014 levels. 
  2013   COMPARED TO   2012 
  Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2013 as compared with 2012 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s water quality business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to increased demand across most major geographies for analytical instruments and related services and consumables.  Sales from existing businesses in the business  chemical treatment solutions product line also grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to continued sales force investments in the U.S. market, and to a lesser extent, continued international expansion.  Sales from existing businesses in the business' ultraviolet water disinfection product line declined during 2013 due to continued weak demand in municipal end markets, primarily in North America and Western Europe.  
    37 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales from existing businesses in the segment's retail petroleum equipment business grew at a low-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012.  Demand for the businesses' dispenser and retail automation products was particularly strong in Western Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  On a year-over-year basis, the business experienced strong increase in demand for its point-of-sale and payment systems and continued growth in demand for dispensers, which were partially offset by slight declines in demand for services.  
    
  Operating profit margins declined 30 basis points during 2013 as compared to 2012.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
    
  2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2013 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2012 and 2013, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 70 basis points 
     2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2013 of acquired businesses - 100 basis points  
     LIFE SCIENCES   DIAGNOSTICS 
  The Company s diagnostics business offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians' offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions.  The Company s life sciences business offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines.  
  Life Sciences   Diagnostics Selected Financial Data  

Components of Sales Growth 

2014   COMPARED TO   2013    
  Year-over-year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales during 2014. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013.  Demand in the clinical business increased on a year over-year-basis led by continuing strong demand in China and other high-growth markets and a return to growth in North America.  Continued strong global consumable sales in 2014 related to the installed base of acute care instruments drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the acute care diagnostic business, which was led by China and other high-growth markets as well as modest increases in Western Europe.  Increased demand for advanced staining systems and consumables across all major geographies drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the pathology diagnostics business.  Slight overall increases in demand for core histology instruments, led by North America, also contributed to this growth. 
    38 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales from existing businesses in the segment's life sciences business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013 due primarily to continued strong demand for the business' recently introduced products.  Geographically, sales grew on a year-over-year basis in North America and Western Europe but declined in China and Japan.  Sales of the business' broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in the applied markets in North America and Western Europe.  Sales of confocal, stereo and surgical microscopy products increased on a year-over-year basis led by strong demand in the developed markets.  Year-over-year demand for the business' cellular analysis and sample preparation product lines grew at a low single digit rate in 2014, led by increases in demand in North America and Western Europe that, were largely offset by sales declines in China and Japan.  
  Operating profit margins increased 70 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
  2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2014 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 110 basis points 
     2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 20 basis points  
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 20 basis points 
     2013   COMPARED TO   2012    
  Year-over-year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales during 2013. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012 due to increased demand in the clinical, acute care and pathology diagnostic businesses.  The clinical diagnostics business experienced strong sales of consumables and automation hardware in high-growth markets, particularly China, that more than offset slightly negative year-over-year sales performance in North America and Europe.  Sales growth in the acute care diagnostic business was due primarily to continued robust global consumables sales related to the business' growing installed base of instrumentation as well as strong demand for compact blood gas analyzers and cardiac care instruments.  The year-over-year sales growth in the pathology diagnostics business was driven by strong demand for advanced staining systems and consumables in North America, China and Japan and increased demand for core histology instruments and consumables in North America and China.  
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's life sciences business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012 due primarily to strong demand for new product introductions across the life sciences businesses.  Fourth quarter 2013  growth rates lagged full year growth rates due to comparisons to the same period in 2012 which benefited from new product introductions.  Sales of the business' broad range of mass spectrometers grew on a year-over-year basis as strong sales growth in the applied and clinical research markets and the pharmaceutical market were partially offset by sales declines in the academic research market.  Geographically, year-over-year sales growth in the mass spectrometry business was strong in high-growth markets and in the second half of 2013 the business also experienced strong demand in Europe and Japan.  The business' confocal microscopy, flow cytometry and sample preparation product lines also contributed to year-over-year growth, principally from demand in high-growth markets.  
  Operating profit margins increased 140 basis points during 2013 as compared to 2012.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
  2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2013 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2012 and 2013, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the new U.S. medical device excise tax that took effect in 2013 - 190 basis points 
     2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2013 of acquired businesses - 50 basis points 
       39 

     Table of Contents  

   DENTAL 
  The Company s Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile.  The Company is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and is dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity.  
  Dental Selected Financial Data  

Components of Sales Growth 

2014   COMPARED TO   2013    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2014   as compared with   2013   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses grew on a year-over-year basis as a result of increased demand for all major product categories, with strong sales of imaging products, instruments and implant products, along with modest growth in dental consumables.  Geographically, year-over-year sales grew in Europe and high-growth markets, specifically China and the Middle East.  The acquisition of Nobel Biocare provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company s Dental segment by expanding the businesses  geographic and product line diversity, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the area of implant based tooth replacements.  As Nobel Biocare is integrated into the Company, the Company also expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Nobel Biocare. 
  Operating profit margins declined 70 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2014 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 80 basis points 
     2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 35 basis points  
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 40 basis points 
                
    Acquisition related charges recorded in 2014 associated with the Nobel Biocare acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory - 75 basis points 
       40 

     Table of Contents  

   2013   COMPARED TO   2012    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2013 as compared with 2012 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's dental consumables businesses grew at a low-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012, primarily due to increased sales of professional dental consumables and implant products.  On a year-over-year basis, sales of dental consumables were strong in North America (although North America contracted slightly in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013), China and other high-growth markets and contracted slightly in Western Europe.  In addition, sales from existing businesses in the segment's dental technologies businesses grew at a low-single digit rate on a year-over-year basis primarily as a result of increased demand for imaging products and treatment units.  Geographically, increased sales in North America, China and certain other high-growth markets more than offset lower demand in Europe. 
  Operating profit margins increased 10 basis points during 2013 as compared to 2012.  Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    The incremental net accretive effect in 2013 of acquired businesses - 5 basis points 
                
    Higher 2013 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2012 and 2013, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the new U.S. medical device excise tax that took effect in 2013 - 5 basis points   
     INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES 
  The Company s Industrial Technologies segment solutions help protect the world s food supply, improve packaging design and quality, verify pharmaceutical dosages and authenticity and power innovative machines.  Danaher's product identification business develops and manufactures equipment, consumables and software for various printing, marking, coding, design and color management applications on consumer and industrial products.  Danaher's automation business provides mechanical and electromechanical motion control solutions for the automation market.  In addition to the product identification and automation strategic lines of business, the segment also includes Danaher's sensors and controls, energetic materials and engine retarder businesses.  
  Industrial Technologies Selected Financial Data  

Components of Sales Growth 

2014   COMPARED TO   2013    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2014   as compared with 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
    41 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales from existing businesses in the segment's product identification business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013.  Continued increased demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables as well as packaging and color solutions was partially offset by continued lower year-over-year demand in consumer electronics related equipment.  Geographically, year-over-year sales growth was led by North America and Europe. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's automation business grew at a low-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013.  Improved year-over-year demand in industrial automation, in North America distribution and in medical related end-markets was partially offset by lower year-over-year demand in technology, agricultural and defense related end-markets and the effect of exiting certain low-margin original equipment manufacturer product lines which negatively impacted the first half of 2014.  Geographically, strong year-over-year demand in China and other high-growth markets as well as moderate sales growth in North America, more than offset year-over-year sales declines in Europe.  During the third quarter of 2014, the Company sold its EVS/hybrid business.  The impact of this divestiture is reflected in "Acquisitions (divestitures), net" in the Components of Sales Growth table above as the disposition was not deemed a discontinued operation for financial reporting purposes.  See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's other businesses collectively grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to strong demand in the segment's engine retarder business, and to a lesser extent, continued improving demand in the segment's sensors and controls businesses. 
  Operating profit margins increased 160 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013.  Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2014 sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 115 basis points 
                
    Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 45 basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses was fully offset by the positive effect of the product line disposition in the third quarter of 2014 
     2013   COMPARED TO   2012    
  Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012.  Continued increased demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables as well as packaging and color solutions in most end markets was partially offset by lower year-over-year demand in consumer electronics related equipment.  Sales grew on a year-over-year basis in most major geographies, particularly in North America and Latin America.  
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's automation business declined at a high-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012.  Continued soft year-over-year demand in the majority of end markets served, particularly technology and defense related end markets, and the impact of exiting certain low-margin OEM product lines, was partially offset by increased sales of industrial automation products, primarily in North America.  Geographically, year-over-year sales declines in Europe, China and certain end markets in North America more than offset improving demand in certain high-growth markets.  
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's other businesses collectively grew at a low-single digit rate during 2013 as compared to 2012.  Strong year-over-year demand in the segment's energetic materials business was partially offset by lower year-over-year demand in the segment's engine retarder business.  Sales from existing businesses in the segment's sensors and controls businesses were essentially flat on a year-over-year basis. 
  Operating profit margins increased 40 basis points during 2013 as compared to 2012.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
    
  2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2013 prices and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2012 and 2013, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the impact of lower 2013  unit sales - 80 basis points   
       42 

     Table of Contents  

   2013 vs. 2012 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:  
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in 2013 of acquired businesses - 40 basis points  
     COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT 

Cost of sales increased approximately 3% on a year over year basis during   2014   as compared to   2013  , due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory in connection with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare during the fourth quarter of 2014 and incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives, partially offset by incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continued productivity improvements taken in 2013 and 2014. 
  Cost of sales increased approximately 4% on a year-over-year basis for   2013   as compared to 2012 due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes and the impact of the U.S. excise tax on medical devices imposed in 2013, partially offset by the year-over-year decline in costs associated with restructuring actions and continued productivity improvements.  In 2013, the U.S. imposed a 2.3% excise tax on the sale or importation of certain medical devices, which affected various products in the Company's Life Sciences   Diagnostics and Dental segments.  The excise tax increased the Company's 2013 cost of sales as a percentage of revenue on a year-over-year basis by approximately 20 basis points.  The impact of the medical devices excise tax was partially mitigated by general price increases implemented during 2013. 
  Gross profit margins increased 30 basis points on a year-over-year basis during   2014   as compared to   2013  , due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continued productivity improvements taken in 2013 and 2014, partially offset by acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory in connection with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare during the fourth quarter of 2014 and incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives. 
  Gross profit margins increased 50 basis points on a year-over-year basis for   2013   as compared to 2012, due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes and the year-over-year decline in costs relating to restructuring actions and continued productivity improvements.  The excise tax noted above increased the Company's 2013 cost of sales as a percentage of revenue on a year-over-year basis by approximately 20 basis points.  The impact of the medical devices excise tax was partially mitigated by general price increases implemented during 2013. 
  OPERATING EXPENSES 

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 20 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2014 compared to 2013.  The year-over-year increase reflects incremental year-over-year investments in the Company's sales and marketing growth initiatives, higher corporate expenses and incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives.  In addition, transaction costs incurred in connection with the closing of the Nobel Biocare acquisition during the fourth quarter of 2014 unfavorably impacted the year-over-year comparison  
    43 

     Table of Contents  

   by approximately five basis points.  These increases were partially offset by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company's general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2014 sales, the effect of the 2013 impairment charge related to intangible assets associated with a communications business' technology investment and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with 2013 and 2014 restructuring actions.  
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales remained flat from 2012 to 2013.  The benefit of increased leverage of the Company's cost base resulting from higher 2013 sales and the year-over-year decline in restructuring costs was offset by incremental year-over-year increases in investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives.  Year-over-year comparisons were also adversely impacted by an impairment charge related to intangible assets associated with a communications business' technology investment which increased selling, general and administrative expenses by 15 basis points in 2013.  
  Research and development expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales increased 10 basis points on a year-over-year basis in 2014 as compared to 2013.  Incremental year-over-year increases in investments in the Company's new product development initiatives were the primary contributors to this increase.  Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales increased 30 basis points on a year-over-year basis in 2013 as compared to 2012 due primarily to new product development initiatives.   
  OTHER INCOME  
  During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $167 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pre-tax gain related to these sales of   $123 million   (  $77 million   after-tax or   $0.11   per diluted share).  In addition, the Company completed the divestiture of its EVS/hybrid product line for a sale price of   $87 million   in cash in August 2014.  This product line, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment, had revenues of approximately   $60 million   in 2014 prior to the divestiture and approximately   $100 million   in each of 2013 and 2012.  Operating results of the product line were not significant to segment or overall Company reported results in 2014.  The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of the product line of   $34 million   (  $26 million   after-tax or   $0.04   per diluted share) in its third quarter 2014 results.  Subsequent to the sale, the Company has no continuing involvement in the EVS/hybrid product line.  
  During the fourth quarter of   2013  , the Company sold approximately   5 million   of the approximately   8 million   shares of Align Technology, Inc. ("Align") common stock that the Company received in 2009 as a result of a settlement between Align and Ormco Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.  The Company received cash proceeds of   $251 million   from the sale of these marketable equity securities and recorded a pre-tax gain of   $202 million   (  $125 million   after-tax or   $0.18   per diluted share).  
  On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc ( Cooper ), combining certain of the Company s hand tool businesses with Cooper s Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC ( Apex ).  Each of Cooper and the Company had owned a   50%   interest in Apex, had an equal number of representatives on Apex s Board of Directors and neither joint venture partner controlled the significant operating and financing activities of Apex.  The Company had accounted for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting.   
  During 2012, the Company recorded $70 million of earnings from unconsolidated joint venture related to its interest in Apex.  In February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately   $1.6 billion  .  The Company received   $797 million   from the sale, consisting of cash of   $759 million   (including   $67 million   of dividends received prior to closing) and a note receivable of   $38 million   (which has been subsequently collected).  The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of   $230 million   (  $144 million   after-tax or   $0.20   per diluted share) in its first quarter 2013 results in connection with this transaction.  The Company's share of the 2013 earnings generated by Apex prior to the closing of the sale was insignificant.  Subsequent to the sale of its investment in Apex, the Company has no continuing involvement in Apex's operations.     
  INTEREST COSTS 
  For a description of the Company s outstanding indebtedness, refer to   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financing Activities and Indebtedness  below. 
  Interest expense of   $123 million   for   2014   was   $23 million   lower than in   2013  , due primarily to the repayment of the $400 million principal amount of 1.3% senior unsecured notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes") upon maturity in June 2014 in addition to the repayment of the  500 million principal amount of Eurobond notes due 2013 (the "Eurobond Notes") and the $300 million principal amount of floating rate senior notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes") upon maturity in July and June 2013, respectively.  Interest expense of   $146 million   in   2013   was $12 million lower than the   2012   interest expense of   $158 million   due primarily to the repayment of the Eurobond Notes and the 2013 Notes.  
    44 

     Table of Contents  

   Interest income was   $17 million  ,   $6 million   and   $3 million   in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  The increase in interest income in 2014 compared to prior periods reflects higher overall cash holdings throughout 2014 compared to 2013 and 2012. 
  INCOME TAXES 
  General 
  Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company s financial statements.  The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. 
  The Company s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws.  For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Cash and Cash Requirements  below. 
  The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments.  Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis.  Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions, and the expiration of statutes of limitations, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary.  For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors . 
  Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate 
  The Company s effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   25.4%  ,   24.4%   and   23.6%  , respectively. 
  The Company s effective tax rate for each of   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35.0% due principally to the Company s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate.  The effective tax rates for 2014 and 2013 also include the benefit from the reinstatement of certain tax benefits and credits resulting from the enactments of the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 and the America Tax Relief Act of 2012.  In addition, the effective tax rate of   25.4%   in 2014 includes tax expense for audit settlements in various jurisdictions and changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitations.  The effective tax rates of   24.4%   in 2013 and   23.6%   in 2012 include recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolutions of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions and the lapse of certain statutes of limitations, partially offset by adjustments of reserve estimates related to prior period uncertain tax positions.  The matters referenced above have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and in the aggregate increased the provision for income taxes by approximately   165   basis points in   2014   and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately   20   basis points in   2013   and   30   basis points in   2012  . 
  The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the United States federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.  The countries in which the Company has a significant presence that have significantly lower statutory tax rates than the United States include China, Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom.  The Company's ability to obtain a tax benefit from lower statutory tax rates outside of the United States is dependent on its levels of taxable income in these foreign countries.  The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company's financial statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company's taxable income. 
  The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities.  The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) has completed examinations of certain of the Company's federal income tax returns through 2009 and is currently examining certain of the Company's federal income tax returns for 2010 and 2011.  The Company's U.S. tax returns for 2012 and 2013 remain open for examination by the IRS.  In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2002 through 2013. 
    
    45 

     Table of Contents  

   Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company's subsidiaries.  On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority ( SKAT ) totaling approximately   DKK 1.2 billion   (approximately   $190 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) including interest through December 31, 2014, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company's subsidiaries for the years 2004-2009.  If the SKAT claims are successful, it is likely that the Company would be assessed additional amounts for years 2010-2012 totaling approximately   DKK 650 million   (approximately   $106 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014).  Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and intends to vigorously defend its positions.  The Company appealed these assessments with the National Tax Tribunal in 2014 and intends on pursuing this matter through the European Court of Justice should this appeal be unsuccessful.  The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company's financial statements, including its effective tax rate. 
  As previously disclosed, German tax authorities had raised issues related to the deductibility and taxability of interest accrued by certain of the Company s subsidiaries.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the German tax authorities to resolve these open matters through 2014.  The Company recorded  49 million (approximately $60 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) of expense for taxes and interest related to this settlement during the fourth quarter of 2014.  
  The Company's effective tax rate for   2015   is expected to be approximately 24.0%.  This anticipated rate reflects no benefit from the research and experimentation credit in the United States which expired at the end of 2014. 
    
  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  Comprehensive income decreased by   $2.0 billion   for 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to the impact of foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to most major currencies during the year, in addition to pension and post-retirement plan benefit adjustments.  The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of   $1.2 billion   for 2014 compared to a translation loss of   $62 million   for 2013.  Pension and post-retirement plan benefit adjustments resulted in a loss of $361 million in 2014 compared to a gain of $289 million in 2013.  Comprehensive income increased by   $599 million   for 2013 as compared to 2012, primarily due to increased net earnings for 2013 and the impact of pension and post-retirement plan benefit adjustments.  The Company recorded a pension and post-retirement plan benefit gain of   $289 million   for 2013 compared to a loss of   $140 million   for 2012. 
  INFLATION 
  The effect of inflation on the Company s revenues and net earnings was not significant in any of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   or   2012  . 
    
    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
  The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its financial statements.  The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities.  In addition, the Company s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole. 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt.  A change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt but not the Company s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed.  Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise.  As of   December 31, 2014  , an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from the value of its underlying common stock) by approximately $90 million.  However, since the Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the Company s results of operations or stockholders  equity. 
    46 

     Table of Contents  

   As of   December 31, 2014  , the Company s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar and Euro-based commercial paper borrowings (refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s outstanding commercial paper balances as of   December 31, 2014  ).  As a result, the Company s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates.  As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings.  In   2014  , a 10% increase in average market interest rates on the Company s commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Company s interest expense by approximately $0.1 million.  A 10% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Company s actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during   2014  .   
  Currency Exchange Rate Risk 
  The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates.  Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher s functional currency or the functional currency of our applicable subsidiary.  The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher s functional currency.  Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period.  As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar.  In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies.  Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.  The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders  equity.  A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of   December 31, 2014   would have resulted in a reduction of stockholders  equity of approximately $1.0 billion. 
  Currency exchange rates negatively impacted   2014   reported sales by 1.0% on a year-over-year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against most major currencies during   2014   as compared to exchange rate levels during   2013  .  If the exchange rates in effect as of   December 31, 2014   were to prevail throughout   2015  , currency exchange rates would adversely impact   2015   estimated sales by approximately 3.5% relative to the Company s performance in   2014   due to the continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies at the end of the fourth quarter of 2014.  Additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would further adversely impact the Company s sales and results of operations on an overall basis.  Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would positively impact the Company s sales and results of operations.  
  The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk.  Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  On April 2, 2014, the Company terminated the Japanese Yen/U.S. dollar currency swap agreement that had been acquired in connection with a prior business acquisition.  The currency swap agreement initially required the Company to purchase approximately   184 million   Japanese Yen (JPY/ ) at a rate of $1/   102.25   on a monthly basis through June 1, 2018.  The currency swap did not qualify for hedge accounting, and as a result, changes in the fair value of the currency swap were reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings each reporting period.  The fair value of the currency swap as of the termination date was not significant and the fair value had not changed significantly during 2014 prior to the swap being terminated.  During the years ended December 31,   2013   and 2012, the Company recorded pre-tax income of   $14 million   and   $22 million  , respectively, related to changes in the fair value of this currency swap.  
  Credit Risk 
  The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments.  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives.  The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution.  Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents.  The Company s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. 
    47 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company s customers.  The Company s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers  financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. 
  The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and, with the exception of the Yen swap noted above, such transactions are generally insignificant to the Company's financial condition and results of operations.  These transactions are entered into only with high-quality financial institutions and exposure at any one institution is limited. 
  Equity Price Risk 
  The Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio includes publicly traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price.  Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities.  A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of   December 31, 2014   would have reduced the fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio by $26 million. 
  Commodity Price Risk 
  For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
    
    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  Management assesses the Company s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities.  The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis.  
  Following is an overview of the Company's cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31:  
  Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity 

Operating cash flows from continuing operations increased   $173 million  , or approximately   5%  , during   2014   as compared to   2013  .  Cash flow increases generated from higher operating profit, as well as higher non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization, were largely offset by increased investments in working capital.  In addition, operating cash flows for 2013 benefited from $67 million of dividends received related to earnings of the Apex joint venture. 
       48 

     Table of Contents  

Cash paid for acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash during 2014.  The Company acquired seventeen businesses during   2014  , including the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, for total consideration (net of cash acquired) of approximately   $3.1 billion  . 
                
    During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $254 million   from the sale of certain marketable securities and the divestiture of its EVS/hybrid product line. 
      Operating Activities 
  Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. 
  Operating cash flows from continuing operations were   $3.8 billion   for   2014  , an increase of   $173 million  , or   5%   as compared to   2013  .  The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from   2013   to   2014   was primarily attributable to the following factors: 
             
    2014 operating cash flows benefited from higher net earnings as compared to 2013 excluding the impacts of the gains included in other non-operating income in both years.  While these non-operating gains are included in earnings, the proceeds from the sales of investments, product lines and discontinued operations are reflected in the investing activities section of the Statement of Cash Flows and, therefore, do not contribute to operating cash flows. 
                
    The aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable provided   $27 million   in operating cash flows during   2014  , compared to   $197 million   provided in   2013  .  The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable depends upon how effectively the Company manages the cash conversion cycle, which effectively represents the number of days that elapse from the day it pays for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from its customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of collections and payments in a period. 
                
    Net earnings for   2014   reflected an increase of   $44 million   of depreciation and amortization expense as compared to   2013  .  Amortization expense primarily relates to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions.  Depreciation expense relates to both the Company's manufacturing and operating facilities as well as instrumentation leased to customers under operating-type lease arrangements.  Depreciation and amortization are non-cash expenses that decrease earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows. 
                
    2013 operating cash flows included $67 million of dividends received related to earnings of the Apex joint venture, which was sold in 2013.  These dividends increased the 2013 operating cash flows but did not repeat in 2014 due to the sale. 
     Operating cash flows from continuing operations were   $3.6 billion   for   2013  , an increase of $83 million, or 2% as compared to   2012  . This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in operating profit in 2013 as compared to 2012.  
  Investing Activities 
  Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets. 
  Net cash used in investing activities was   $3.4 billion   during   2014   compared to   $553 million   and   $1.9 billion   of net cash used in   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  2014   Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  For a discussion of the Company s   2014   acquisitions, divestitures and the sale of certain marketable equity securities, refer to   Overview.  
    49 

     Table of Contents  

   2013   Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  During   2013  , the Company acquired   fourteen   businesses for total consideration of   $957 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Industrial Technologies, Life Sciences   Diagnostics, Environmental and Test   Measurement segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   fourteen   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $300 million  . 
  During the fourth quarter of   2013  , the Company sold approximately   5 million   of the approximately   8 million   shares of Align common stock that the Company received in 2009 as a result of a settlement between Align and Ormco.  The Company received cash proceeds of   $251 million   from the sale of these securities and recorded a pre-tax gain of   $202 million   (  $125 million   after-tax or   $0.18   per diluted share).  
  On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper, combining certain of the Company s hand tool businesses with Cooper s Tools business to form a new entity, Apex.  In February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately   $1.6 billion  .  The Company received   $797 million   from the sale, consisting of cash of   $759 million   (including   $67 million   of dividends received prior to closing) and a note receivable of   $38 million   (which has been subsequently collected).  The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of   $230 million   (  $144 million   after-tax or   $0.20   per diluted share) in its first quarter 2013 results in connection with this transaction.  
  2012   Acquisitions and Divestitures 
  During 2012, the Company acquired   fourteen   businesses for total consideration of   $1.8 billion   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company's   five   segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   fourteen   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were   $666 million  .     
  In January 2012, the Company completed the sale of its integrated scanning system business (the ASI business) for   $132 million   in cash.  In addition, in February 2012, the Company completed the sale of its KEO business for   $205 million   in cash.  These businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies segment.  The businesses had combined annual revenues of   $275 million   in 2011.  The Company recorded an aggregate after-tax gain on the sale of these businesses of   $94 million  , or   $0.13   per diluted share, in its first quarter 2012 results.  The Company has reported the ASI and KEO businesses as discontinued operations in its consolidated financial statements.  Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented reflect these businesses as discontinued operations.   
  Capital Expenditures 
  Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development,  improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company s businesses enter into with customers.  Capital expenditures totaled   $598 million   in   2014  ,   $552 million   in   2013   and   $458 million   in   2012  .  The increase in capital spending in 2014 and 2013 is due primarily to increases in equipment leased to customers.  In   2015  , the Company expects capital spending to be between $650 million and $700 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. 
  Financing Activities and Indebtedness 
  Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and debt, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, payments of principal on indebtedness, payments for repurchases of common stock and payments of cash dividends to shareholders.  Financing activities used cash of   $218 million   during   2014   compared to   $1.6 billion   of cash used during   2013  .  The year-over-year decrease was due primarily to the incrementally lower year-over-year repayment of borrowings with maturities longer than 90 days and incrementally higher year-over-year net proceeds received from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings.  The Company repaid the 2014 Notes upon their maturity in June 2014.  
    50 

     Table of Contents  

   Total debt was   $3.5 billion   as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  .  The Company s debt as of   December 31, 2014   was as follows: 
             
    $765 million   of outstanding commercial paper; 
            The 2011 Financing Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes are collectively referred to as the  Notes . 
  Commercial Paper Programs and Credit Facility 
  The Company satisfies any short-term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flow and available cash primarily through issuances of commercial paper under its U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs.  Under these programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes.  Interest expense on the notes is paid at maturity and is generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR.  Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  During   2014  , as commercial paper balances matured the Company either paid such balances from available cash or refinanced such balances by issuing new commercial paper.  As of December 31, 2014, the Company had $450 million in U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper outstanding and   $315 million   (   260 million  ) of commercial paper outstanding under the Euro commercial paper program.         
  As of   December 31, 2014  , borrowings outstanding under the Company s U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs had a weighted average annual interest rate of   0.13%   and a weighted average remaining maturity of approximately   twelve   days.  Commercial paper outstanding at any one time during the year had balances ranging from $450 million to $822 million, carried interest at annual rates ranging between   0.04%   and   0.2%   and had original maturities between   seven   and   thirty-four   days.  The Company has classified its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program as of   December 31, 2014   as long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Credit Facility referenced below, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. 
  Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by a $2.5 billion unsecured multi-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on July 15, 2016 (the  Credit Facility ).  The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes.  Under the Credit Facility, borrowings (other than bid loans) bear interest at a rate equal to (at the Company s option) either (1) a LIBOR-based rate plus a margin that varies according to the Company s long-term debt credit rating (the  Eurodollar Rate ), or (2) the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1%, plus in each case a margin that varies according to the Company s long-term debt credit rating.  In addition to certain initial fees the Company paid at inception of the Credit Facility, the Company is obligated to pay an annual commitment fee that varies according to its long-term debt credit rating.  The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the facility) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and also contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants.  As of   December 31, 2014  , no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility and the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the facility.  The non-performance by any member of the Credit Facility syndicate would reduce the maximum capacity of the Credit Facility by such member's commitment amount.  In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit. 
  The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Company s commercial paper programs.  The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would leave sufficient credit available under the facility to allow the Company to borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures. 
    51 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company s ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of the Company s credit rating and market conditions.  Any downgrade in the Company s credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Company s commercial paper program and the Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Company s ability to issue commercial paper.  If the Company s access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a downgrade, change in market conditions or otherwise, the Company expects it would rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and the Company s Credit Facility to provide short-term funding.  In such event, the cost of borrowings under the Company s Credit Facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings. 
  Other Long-Term Indebtedness 
  2013 Notes, 2014 Notes, 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes   On June 23, 2011, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes, the 2013 Notes and the 2014 Notes, all of which are (or in the case of the 2013 Notes and 2014 Notes were) unsecured.  The 2013 Notes were issued at 100% of their principal amount, accrued interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.25% per year and matured and were repaid in June 2013.  The 2014 Notes were issued at 99.918% of their principal amount, accrued interest at the rate of 1.3% per year and matured and were repaid in June 2014.  The 2016 Notes were issued at 99.84% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2016 and accrue interest at the rate of 2.3% per year.  The 2021 Notes were issued at 99.975% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2021 and accrue interest at the rate of 3.9% per year.  The net proceeds from the 2011 Financing Notes, 2013 Notes and 2014 Notes offering, after deducting expenses and the underwriters  discount, were approximately $1.8 billion and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Beckman Coulter.  The Company paid interest on the 2013 Notes quarterly in arrears on March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year.  The Company paid interest on the 2014 Notes, and pays interest on the 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on June 23 and December 23 of each year. 
  2019 Notes   In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2019 Notes, which were issued at 99.93% of their principal amount, will mature on March 1, 2019 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.4% per year.  The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were $745 million.  A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Company s outstanding commercial paper and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The Company pays interest on the 2019 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. 
  2018 Notes   In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2018 Notes, which were issued at 99.39% of their principal amount, will mature on January 15, 2018 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.625% per year.  The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of the Tektronix business.  The Company pays interest on the 2018 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on January 15 and July 15 of each year. 
  2016 Bonds   In connection with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare in December 2014, the Company acquired bonds with an aggregate principal amount of CHF 120 million and a stated interest rate of 4.0% per year.  In accordance with accounting for business combinations, the bonds were recorded at their fair value of CHF 127 million ($133 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time of the acquisition), as such, for accounting purposes interest charges recorded in the Company's statement of earnings reflect an effective interest rate of approximately 0.2% per year.  The Company will pay interest on the 2016 Bonds annually in arrears on October 10 of each year (based on the stated 4.0% interest rate).  The 2016 Bonds mature on October 10, 2016.  
  LYONs   In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs.  The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below).  Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 29.0704 shares of the Company s common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately 24 million shares of the Company s common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021.  As of   December 31, 2014  , an aggregate of approximately   20 million   shares of the Company s common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs.  As of   December 31, 2014  , the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion.  The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices.   
  Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company pays contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON.  The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds  average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly  
    52 

     Table of Contents  

   period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON.  The Company paid   $2 million  ,   $1 million   and   $1 million   of contingent interest on the LYONs for each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  , 2013 and 2012, respectively.  Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. 
  Eurobond Notes   On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the United States.  Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes were guaranteed by the Company.  The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were  496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Company s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The Eurobond Notes matured and were repaid in July 2013. 
  Covenants and Redemption Provisions Applicable to the Notes and the 2016 Bonds 
  The Company may redeem some or all of the 2016 Notes, the 2018 Notes and/or the 2019 Notes at any time by paying the principal amount and a  make-whole  premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  Prior to March 23, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes by paying the principal amount and a  make-whole  premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  On or after March 23, 2021, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.  At any time after 85% or more of the 2016 Bonds have been redeemed or purchased and canceled, the Company may redeem some or all of the remaining 2016 Bonds for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.  If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to the Notes, each holder of Notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of its Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest.  A change of control triggering event means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event, each as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture.  Except in connection with a change of control triggering event as described above, the Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt.  
  The indentures pursuant to which the Notes were issued each contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions, and the 2016 Bonds are subject to similar covenants.  None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Company s operations and as of   December 31, 2014  , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.  
  For additional details regarding the Company s debt as of   December 31, 2014   see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Shelf Registration Statement 
  The Company has filed a  well-known seasoned issuer  shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance.  The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends, and working capital.  
  Stock Repurchase Program 
  On July 16, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors approved a new repurchase program (the  2013 Repurchase Program ) authorizing the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Company's common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  The 2013 Repurchase Program replaced the repurchase program approved by the Company's Board of Directors in May 2010 (the  2010 Repurchase Program ).  There is no expiration date for the 2013 Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company's management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.  The 2013 Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company's equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2014, 20 million shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the 2013 Repurchase Program.  The Company expects to fund any future stock repurchases using the Company's available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. 
    
  Neither the Company nor any  affiliated purchaser  repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2014 and 2013.  During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company repurchased approximately 12.5 million shares of Company common stock under the 2010 Repurchase Program in open market transactions at a cost of $648 million.  
    53 

     Table of Contents  

   Dividends 
  The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share that was paid on January 30, 2015 to holders of record on December 26, 2014.  Aggregate cash payments for dividends during   2014   were   $228 million  .  Dividend payments were higher in   2014   as compared to   2013   as the Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in the first quarter of 2014 to $0.10 per share and because the Company made no cash payments for dividends during the first quarter of 2013.  The Company's Board accelerated the quarterly dividend payment that normally would have been paid in January 2013 and paid it in December 2012.  
  Cash and Cash Requirements 
  As of   December 31, 2014  , the Company held approximately   $3.0 billion   of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 0.4%.  Of this amount $813 million was held within the United States and approximately $2.2 billion was held outside of the United States.  The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, repurchase shares of the Company s common stock, pay dividends to shareholders and support other business needs.  The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs or the Credit Facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper programs and/or access the capital markets.  The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets, including to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions.  
  While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company's foreign cash balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits.  For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States.  A deferred tax liability has been accrued for the funds that are available to be repatriated to the United States.  No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings.  The cash that the Company's foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions.  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately   $11.8 billion   and   $10.6 billion  , respectively.  As of   December 31, 2014  , management believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States. 
  During   2014  , the Company contributed   $52 million   to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and   $62 million   to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  During   2015  , the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately   $25 million   and   $55 million  , respectively.  The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. 
  Contractual Obligations 
  The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company s contractual obligations relating to continuing operations as of   December 31, 2014   under (1) long-term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company s balance sheet under GAAP.  The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $804 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain.  Refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits.  Certain of our acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration.  The table below does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts of any such payments are uncertain.  Refer to   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  for a discussion of other contractual obligations that are not reflected in the table below.   
    
    54 

     Table of Contents  

(a)   
    As described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (b)   
    Amounts do not include interest payments.  Interest on long-term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. 
               (c)   
    Interest payments on long-term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of   December 31, 2014  .  Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. 
               (d)   
    As described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require the Company to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises.  These future costs are not included in the schedule above. 
               (e)   
    Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction. 
               (f)   
    Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self-insurance and litigation claims, post-retirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities (excluding unrecognized tax benefits) and deferred compensation obligations.  The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. 
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off-balance sheet commitments of the Company as of   December 31, 2014  . 

Guarantees consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds.  These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions. 
  Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets.  In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters.  The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Company s financial statements.  In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties.  In the event any of these third parties vacate any of these premises, the  
    55 

     Table of Contents  

   Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.  The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company s financial statements. 
  In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Company s products or services or claims alleging that Company products, services or software infringe third party intellectual property.  The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual obligations table above.  Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations. 
  The Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions.  Danaher s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights.  In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding.  While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. 
  Legal Proceedings 
  Please refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, please refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
    
    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 
  Management s discussion and analysis of the Company s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. 
  The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements.  Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period.  For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Accounts Receivable  : The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables.  Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the allowances for doubtful accounts and, therefore, net income.  The allowances for doubtful accounts represent management s best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Company s trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios.  The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality.  The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances.  If the financial condition of the Company s customers were to deteriorate with a severity, frequency and/or timing different from the Company's assumptions, additional allowances would be required and the Company s financial statements would be adversely impacted. 
  Inventories  : The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value.  The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions of future demand and related pricing.  Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Company s markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Company s control.  If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Company s financial statements. 
    56 

     Table of Contents  

   Acquired Intangibles  : The Company s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process research and development and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur.  Refer to Notes 1, 2 and 6 in the Company s consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions. 
  In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach.  The Company estimates fair value based on multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company s reporting units, in addition to recent market available sale transactions of comparable businesses.  In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected.  In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach.  The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values.  There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment.  
  As of December 31, 2014, the Company had   twenty-two   reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.  Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment.  Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.  The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from   $7 million   to   $4.3 billion  .  The Company s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2014 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.  The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 10% to approximately 1140%.  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values.  Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company s reporting units ranged from approximately 2% to approximately 1015%.  
  The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets. 
  If actual results are not consistent with management s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company s financial statements. 
  Contingent Liabilities  : As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.  These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims.  In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s financial statements. 
  Revenue Recognition  : The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services.  Refer to Note 1 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company s revenue recognition policies.   
    57 

     Table of Contents  

   Although most of the Company s sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions.  As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the consideration should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element.  The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold separately or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable.  The Company s estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements.  The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers, which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases.  Certain of the Company s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. 
  If the Company's judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company's revenues in particular periods may be adversely affected.  
  Stock-Based Compensation  : For a description of the Company s stock-based compensation accounting practices, refer to Note 17 to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards require subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards, stock price volatility and expected forfeiture rate.  The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards represent the Company s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment.  If actual results are not consistent with management s assumptions and estimates, the Company s equity-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future.  
  Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits  : For a description of the Company s pension and other post-retirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 10 and 11 in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Calculations of the amount of pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors.  If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other post-retirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company s financial statements could be materially affected.  A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $150 million ($94 million on an after tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $138 million ($107 million on an after tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the financial statements as of December 31, 2014. 
  For 2014, the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plan is 7.5%, and the Company intends to use an assumption of 7.5% for 2015.  This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets.  The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments.  The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in bond funds.  The Company s non-U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan.  The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 7.10%.  If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2014 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2014 would have increased $10 million ($6 million on an after-tax basis) and $4 million ($3 million on an after-tax basis), respectively.   
  For a discussion of the Company s 2014 and anticipated 2015 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Cash and Cash Requirements . 
  Income Taxes  : For a description of the Company's income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 12 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized which requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies.  Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company s financial statements.  
  The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is  more-likely-than-not  that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (i) a tax audit is completed; (ii) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) the applicable statute of limitations expires. 
    58 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, certain of the Company's tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark (see   Results of Operations   Income Taxes" and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws.  However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company's financial statements, including its effective tax rate. 
  An increase in the Company's nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 of $35 million. 
  NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  , which impacts virtually all aspects of an entity's revenue recognition.  The core principle of the new standard is that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016.  Management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of the new standard, including possible transition alternatives, on the Company's financial statements.  
    
    ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  The information required by this item is included under  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
    
    59 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company.  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
  The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2014  .  In making this assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework  (2013 framework).  Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of   December 31, 2014  , the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective. 
  The Company completed the acquisition of more than 97% of the outstanding common stock of Nobel Biocare on December 11, 2014 and completed the acquisition of Devicor Medical Products on December 3, 2014.  Since the Company has not yet fully incorporated the internal controls and procedures of either of these businesses into the Company s internal control over financial reporting, management excluded each of these businesses from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014.  Nobel Biocare and Devicor Medical Products constituted approximately 7% and 1% of the Company s total assets as of December 31, 2014, respectively, and each accounted for less than 1% of the Company s total revenues for the year then ended. 
  The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  This report dated February 24, 2015 appears on page 61 of this Form 10-K. 
    
    60 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation: 
    
  We have audited Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries  management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management of Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Nobel Biocare and Devicor Medical Products, which are included in the 2014 consolidated financial statements of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries and constituted approximately 7% and 1% of total assets as of December 31, 2014, respectively, and each accounted for less than 1% of revenues for the year then ended.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Nobel Biocare and Devicor Medical Products.  In our opinion, Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the COSO criteria. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 and our report dated February 24, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
    
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
    
  McLean, Virginia 
  February 24, 2015 
    
    61 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation: 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a).  These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Danaher Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 24, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
    
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
    
  McLean, Virginia 
  February 24, 2015 
    
    62 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  ($ and shares in millions, except per share amount) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    63 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
  ($ and shares in millions, except per share amounts) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    64 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  ($ in millions) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    65 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
     ($ and shares in millions) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    66 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  ($ in millions) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    67 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
    NOTE 1.  BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Business   Danaher Corporation (the  Company ) designs, manufactures and markets professional, medical, industrial and commercial products and services, which are typically characterized by strong brand names, innovative technology and major market positions.  The Company operates in   five   business segments: Test   Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences   Diagnostics, Dental and Industrial Technologies.   
  The Company s Test   Measurement segment offerings help customers design cutting-edge innovations, keep their businesses up and running and safeguard their network operations.  The Company's instruments business offers test, measurement and monitoring products that are used in electronic design, manufacturing and advanced technology development, as well as for installation, service and maintenance of electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications.  The Company's communications business is a leading provider of products and solutions used in the design, deployment, monitoring and security of traditional, virtualized, mobile and cloud-based networks operated by communications service providers, hosting service providers, enterprises and government agencies worldwide.  Also included in the Test   Measurement segment are the Company s mobile tool and wheel service businesses.   
  The Company s Environmental segment products and services help protect the global water supply, facilitate environmental stewardship, enhance the safety of personal data and improve business efficiencies.  The Company s water quality business provides instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.  The Company s retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management.   
  In the Life Sciences   Diagnostics segment, the Company s diagnostics business offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians  offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions.  The Company s life sciences business offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. 
  The Company s Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile. 
  The Company s Industrial Technologies segment provides solutions that help protect the world s food supply, improve packaging design and quality, verify pharmaceutical dosages and authenticity and power innovative machines.  The Company's product identification business develops and manufactures equipment, consumables and software for various printing, marking, coding, design and color management applications on consumer and industrial products.  The Company's automation business provides mechanical and electromechanical motion control solutions for the automation market.  In addition to the product identification and automation strategic lines of business, the Industrial Technologies segment also includes the Company's sensors and controls, energetic materials and engine retarder businesses.   
  Refer to Notes 2 and 3 for a discussion of significant acquisitions, discontinued operations and other dispositions. 
  Accounting Principles   The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ).  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.  All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements also reflect the impact of non-controlling interests.  Non-controlling interests do not have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated results of operations, therefore earnings and earnings per share attributable to non-controlling interests are not presented separately in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests have been reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses and were insignificant in all periods presented.  Reclassifications of certain prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current year presentation.  
  Use of Estimates   The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  However, uncertainties associated with these estimates exist and actual results may differ from these estimates.   
  Cash and Equivalents   The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.   
    68 

     Table of Contents  

   Accounts Receivable and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts   All trade accounts, contract and finance receivables are reported on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets adjusted for any write-offs and net of allowances for doubtful accounts.  The allowances for doubtful accounts represent management s best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Company s trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios.  Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net earnings.  The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its portfolios to determine if an impairment has occurred and evaluates the collectability of receivables based on a combination of various financial and qualitative factors that may affect customers  ability to pay, including customers  financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.  In circumstances where the Company is aware of a specific customer s inability to meet its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded against amounts due to reduce the recognized receivable to the amount reasonably expected to be collected.  Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings, amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on previously written-off accounts increase the allowances.  If the financial condition of the Company s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional reserves would be required.  The Company does not believe that accounts receivable represent significant concentrations of credit risk because of the diversified portfolio of individual customers and geographical areas.  The Company recorded   $43 million  ,   $30 million   and   $40 million   associated with doubtful accounts for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   
  Included in the Company s trade accounts receivable and other long-term assets as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013   are   $275 million   and   $224 million   of net aggregate financing receivables, respectively.  All financing receivables are evaluated collectively for impairment due to the homogeneous nature of the portfolio.   
  Inventory Valuation   Inventories include the costs of material, labor and overhead.  Domestic inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market primarily using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method with certain businesses applying the last-in, first-out method ( LIFO ) to value inventory.  Inventories held outside the United States are stated at the lower of cost or market primarily using the FIFO method.   
  Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost.  The provision for depreciation has been computed principally by the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the depreciable assets as follows: 
    
                   Category 
      
    Useful Life 
      Buildings 
      
    30 years 
      Leased assets and leasehold improvements 
      
    Amortized over the lesser of the economic life of the asset or the term of the lease 
      Machinery and equipment 
      
    3   10 years 
      Customer-leased instruments 
      
    5   7 years 

Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, when appropriate, changes to estimates are made prospectively.   
  Investments   Investments over which the Company has a significant influence but not a controlling interest, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.  Equity investments are recorded at the amount of the Company s initial investment and adjusted each period for the Company s share of the investee s income or loss and dividends paid.  All equity investments are periodically reviewed to determine if declines in fair value below cost basis are other-than-temporary.  Significant and sustained decreases in quoted market prices or a series of historic and projected operating losses by investees are strong indicators of other-than-temporary declines.  If the decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment loss is recorded and the investment is written down to a new carrying value.   
  Investments accounted for under the cost method are classified as available-for-sale securities and carried at market value, if readily determinable, or at cost.  Gains and losses realized on the sale of these securities are accounted for using average cost.  Unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available-for-sale are recorded in stockholders  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   
  Other Assets   Other assets principally include non-current financing receivables, non-current deferred tax assets, other investments and capitalized costs associated with obtaining financings which are amortized over the term of the related debt.   
    69 

     Table of Contents  

   Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The Company s financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, available-for-sale securities, obligations under trade accounts payable and short and long-term debt.  Due to their short-term nature, the carrying values for cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable approximate fair value.  Refer to Note 7 for the fair values of the Company s available-for-sale securities and other obligations.   
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   Goodwill and other intangible assets result from the Company s acquisition of existing businesses.  In accordance with accounting standards related to business combinations, goodwill is not amortized, however, certain definite-lived identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, are amortized over their estimated useful lives.  Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized.  In-process research and development ("IPR D") is initially capitalized at fair value and when the IPR D project is complete, the asset is considered a  finite-lived intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life.  If an IPR D project is abandoned, an impairment loss equal to the value of the intangible asset is recorded in the period of abandonment.  The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment.  Refer to Notes 2 and 6 for additional information about the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets.   
  Revenue Recognition   As described above, the Company derives revenues primarily from the sale of test and measurement, environmental, life science and diagnostic, dental and industrial technologies products and services.  For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectability of the associated fee must be reasonably assured.  The Company s principal terms of sale are FOB Shipping Point, or equivalent, and, as such, the Company primarily records revenue for product sales upon shipment.  Sales arrangements entered with delivery terms that are not FOB Shipping Point are not recognized upon shipment and the delivery criteria for revenue recognition is evaluated based on the associated shipping terms and customer obligations.  If any significant obligation to the customer with respect to a sales transaction remains to be fulfilled following shipment (typically installation or acceptance by the customer), revenue recognition is deferred until such obligations have been fulfilled.  Returns for products sold are estimated and recorded as a reduction of revenue at the time of sale.  Customer allowances and rebates, consisting primarily of volume discounts and other short-term incentive programs, are recorded as a reduction of revenue at the time of sale because these allowances reflect a reduction in the purchase price.  Product returns, customer allowances and rebates are estimated based on historical experience and known trends.  Revenue related to separately priced extended warranty and product maintenance agreements is deferred when appropriate and recognized as revenue over the term of the agreement.   
  Certain of the Company s revenues relate to operating-type lease ( OTL ) arrangements.  Instrument lease revenue for OTL agreements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease, and the costs of customer-leased instruments are recorded within property, plant and equipment in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and depreciated over the instrument's estimated useful life.  The depreciation expense is reflected in cost of sales in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The OTLs are generally not cancellable until after the first   two   years.  Certain of the Company s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the criteria used to evaluate whether the arrangement should be considered an OTL or a  sales-type  lease.  A sales-type lease would result in earlier recognition of instrument revenue as compared to an OTL.   
  Revenues for contractual arrangements consisting of multiple elements (i.e., deliverables) are recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand-alone basis and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control.  Certain customer arrangements include multiple elements, typically hardware, installation, training, consulting, services and/or post contract support ( PCS ).  Generally, these elements are delivered within the same reporting period, except PCS or other services, for which revenue is recognized over the service period.  The Company allocates revenue to each element in the arrangement using the selling price hierarchy and based on each element's relative selling price.  The selling price for a deliverable is based on its vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) if available, third party evidence ( TPE ) if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price ( ESP ) if neither VSOE or TPE is available.  The Company considers relevant internal and external market factors in cases where the Company is required to estimate selling prices.  Allocation of the consideration is determined at the arrangements  inception.   
  Shipping and Handling   Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of sales.  Revenue derived from shipping and handling costs billed to customers is included in sales.  
  Advertising   Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.    
    70 

     Table of Contents  

   Research and Development   The Company conducts research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products, enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of the Company s existing products and expanding the applications for which uses of the Company s products are appropriate.  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.   
  Income Taxes   The Company s income tax expense represents the tax liability for the current year, the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year, as well as reserves for unrecognized tax benefits and return to provision adjustments.  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse.  Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Company s tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the Company s tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date.  The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is  more-likely-than-not  that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (i) a tax audit is completed; (ii) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii)  the applicable statute of limitations expires.  The Company recognizes potential accrued interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense.  Refer to Note 12 for additional information.   
  Restructuring   The Company periodically initiates restructuring activities to appropriately position the Company s cost base relative to prevailing economic conditions and associated customer demand as well as in connection with certain acquisitions.  Costs associated with restructuring actions can include one-time termination benefits and related charges in addition to facility closure, contract termination and other related activities.  The Company records the cost of the restructuring activities when the associated liability is incurred.  Refer to Note 14 for additional information.   
  Foreign Currency Translation   Exchange rate adjustments resulting from foreign currency transactions are recognized in net earnings, whereas effects resulting from the translation of financial statements are reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders  equity.  Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating outside the United States with a functional currency other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars using year end exchange rates and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average rates.  Net foreign currency transaction gains or losses were not material in any of the years presented.   
  Derivative Financial Instruments   The Company is neither a dealer nor a trader in derivative instruments.  The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative instruments to manage this risk.  The Company will periodically enter into foreign currency forward contracts not exceeding   twelve   months to mitigate a portion of its foreign currency exchange risk.  When utilized, the derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at fair value.  To the extent the foreign currency forward contract qualifies as an effective hedge, changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity.  The Company s use of foreign currency forward contracts during   2014   and as of the year then ended was not significant.  Refer to Note 7 for additional information.   
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   Effective January 1, 2013, the Company adopted accounting guidance that requires the Company to separately disclose, on a prospective basis, the change in each component of other comprehensive income (loss) relating to reclassification adjustments and current period other comprehensive income (loss).  Foreign currency translation adjustments are generally not adjusted for income taxes as they relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.   
    71 

     Table of Contents  

   The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component are summarized below ($ in millions). 

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   The Company accounts for stock-based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date.  Equity-based compensation expense is recognized net of an estimated forfeiture rate on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award, except that in the case of RSUs, compensation expense is recognized using an accelerated attribution method.   
    72 

     Table of Contents  

   Pension   Post-Retirement Benefit Plans   The Company measures its pension and post-retirement plans  assets and its obligations that determine the respective plan s funded status as of the end of the Company s fiscal year, and recognizes an asset for a plan s overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status in its balance sheet.  Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and reported in comprehensive income (loss).   
  New Accounting Standards   In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  , which impacts virtually all aspects of an entity's revenue recognition.  The core principle of the new standard is that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016.  Management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of the new standard, including possible transition alternatives, on the Company's financial statements.  
    
    NOTE 2.  ACQUISITIONS 
  The Company continually evaluates potential acquisitions that either strategically fit with the Company s existing portfolio or expand the Company s portfolio into a new and attractive business area.  The Company has completed a number of acquisitions that have been accounted for as purchases and have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Company s financial statements.  This goodwill arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses, the multiple to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers, the competitive nature of the processes by which the Company acquired the businesses, the avoidance of the time and costs which would be required (and the associated risks that would be encountered) to enhance the Company's existing product offerings to key target markets and enter into new and profitable businesses, and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations.   
  The Company makes an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based upon its understanding of the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities.  The Company obtains this information during due diligence and through other sources.  In the months after closing, as the Company obtains additional information about these assets and liabilities, including through tangible and intangible asset appraisals, and learns more about the newly acquired business, it is able to refine the estimates of fair value and more accurately allocate the purchase price.  Only items identified as of the acquisition date are considered for subsequent adjustment.  The Company is continuing to evaluate certain pre-acquisition contingencies associated with certain of its   2014   acquisitions and is also in the process of obtaining valuations of certain property, plant and equipment, acquired intangible assets and certain acquisition related liabilities in connection with these acquisitions.  The Company will make appropriate adjustments to the purchase price allocation prior to completion of the measurement period, as required.  The Company evaluated whether any adjustments to the prior year purchase price allocations were material and concluded no retrospective adjustment to prior year financial statements was required.   
  The following briefly describes the Company s acquisition activity for the three years ended   December 31, 2014  .   
  On December 11, 2014, the Company successfully completed its tender offer for the outstanding shares of common stock of Nobel Biocare Holding AG ("Nobel Biocare"), acquiring   97%   of the outstanding shares for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately   CHF 1.9 billion   (approximately   $1.9 billion   based on exchange rates as of the date the shares of common stock were acquired) including debt assumed and net of cash acquired.  As the Company obtained control of Nobel Biocare on this date, the earnings of Nobel Biocare are reflected in the Company s results from December 12, 2014 forward.  Danaher is in the process of acquiring the remaining outstanding Nobel Biocare shares by means of a squeeze-out transaction, as permitted under Swiss law.  Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Nobel Biocare is a world leader in the field of innovative implant-based dental restorations with a portfolio of solutions that include dental implant systems, high-precision individualized prosthetics, biomaterials and digital diagnostics, treatment planning and guided surgery.  Nobel Biocare had revenues of    567 million   in 2013 (approximately   $780 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2013), and is now part of the Company's Dental segment.  The Company recorded approximately   $1.0 billion   of goodwill related to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare.  The Company financed the acquisition of Nobel Biocare from available cash.   
  In addition to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, during   2014   the Company acquired   sixteen   other businesses for total consideration of approximately   $1.3 billion   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Test   Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences   Diagnostics and Dental segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   sixteen   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $420 million  .  The Company preliminarily recorded an aggregate of   $630 million   of goodwill related to these acquisitions.   
    73 

     Table of Contents  

   During   2013  , the Company acquired   fourteen   businesses for total consideration of   $957 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Test   Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences   Diagnostics and Industrial Technologies segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   fourteen   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $300 million  .  The Company recorded an aggregate of   $585 million   of goodwill related to these acquisitions.   
  During 2012, the Company acquired   fourteen   businesses for total consideration of   $1.8 billion   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company's   five   segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   fourteen   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were   $666 million  .  The Company recorded an aggregate of   $1.0 billion   of goodwill related to these acquisitions.   
  The following summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition ($ in millions): 

The following summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for the individually significant acquisition in 2014 discussed above, and all of the other 2014 acquisitions as a group ($ in millions): 

During 2014, in connection with the Nobel Biocare acquisition, the Company incurred   $12 million   of pre-tax transaction related costs, primarily banking fees, legal fees, amounts paid to other third party advisers and change in control costs.  In addition, the Company s earnings for 2014 reflect the impact of additional pre-tax charges totaling   $5 million   associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory related to the Nobel Biocare acquisition.  Transaction related costs and acquisition related fair value adjustments attributable to other acquisitions were not material to 2014, 2013 or 2012 earnings.   
    74 

     Table of Contents  

   Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited) 
  The unaudited pro forma information for the periods set forth below gives effect to the   2014   and   2013   acquisitions as if they had occurred as of January 1,   2013  .  The pro forma information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that actually would have been achieved had the acquisitions been consummated as of that time ($ in millions except per share amounts): 

The 2013 unaudited pro forma revenue and earnings set forth above were adjusted to include the impact of non-recurring acquisition date fair value adjustments to inventory related to the Nobel Biocare acquisition of   $27 million   pre-tax.  The 2014 unaudited pro forma revenue and earnings were adjusted to exclude the impact of the above noted acquisition date fair value adjustments.  Acquisition-related transaction costs associated with the Nobel Biocare transaction of   $12 million   were also excluded from the pro-forma earnings in each of the 2014 and 2013 periods presented.   
    
    NOTE 3.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND OTHER DISPOSITIONS 
  Discontinued Operations 
  In January 2012, the Company completed the sale of its integrated scanning system business (the Accu-Sort ("ASI") business) for   $132 million   in cash.  In addition, in February 2012, the Company completed the sale of its Kollmorgen Electro-Optical ("KEO") business for   $205 million   in cash.  These businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies segment.  The businesses had combined annual revenues of   $275 million   in 2011.  The Company recorded an aggregate after-tax gain on the sale of these businesses of   $94 million  , or   $0.13   per diluted share, in its first quarter 2012 results.  The Company has reported the ASI and KEO businesses as discontinued operations in its consolidated financial statements.  Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented reflect these businesses as discontinued operations.  
  The key components of income from discontinued operations for the year ended   December 31  , 2012 were as follows ($ in millions): 
    
                     Net sales 
    $ 
    9.9 
      
      Operating expenses 
    (11.2 
    ) 
      Loss before income taxes 
    (1.3 
    ) 
      Income tax benefit 
    0.5 
      
      Loss from discontinued operations 
    (0.8 
    ) 
      Gain on sale, net of $55.0 million of related income taxes  
    93.7 
      
      Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 
    $ 
    92.9 

Other Dispositions 
  In the fourth quarter of 2014, Danaher entered into a definitive agreement with NetScout Systems, Inc. ("NetScout") to combine the majority of the Company's Test   Measurement segment's communications business with NetScout (Danaher will retain the data communications cable installation business and the communication service provider (field and test tool systems) business of Fluke Networks and these will become part of the Test   Measurement segment s instruments business following the closing of the transaction).  The transaction will be structured as a distribution of the communications business to Danaher shareholders in either a spin-off transaction, a split-off transaction, or a combination split-off and spin-off, followed by a merger of the communications business with a subsidiary of NetScout for consideration of   62.5 million   NetScout shares, subject to adjustment.  Both the distribution and merger are expected to qualify as tax-free transactions to Danaher and its shareholders, except to the extent that cash is paid to Danaher stockholders in lieu of fractional shares.  If Danaher elects a spin-off, all Danaher shareholders will participate pro-rata.  If Danaher elects a split-off, Danaher will conduct an exchange offer pursuant to which its shareholders will elect whether to exchange Danaher shares for common units of the communications business.  If the split-off exchange offer is not fully subscribed, the additional common units of the communications business held by Danaher will be distributed in a spin-off on a pro rata basis to Danaher shareholders.  Danaher will determine which approach it will take prior to closing the transaction and no decision has been made at this time.   
    75 

     Table of Contents  

   At closing, depending on the number of shares of NetScout common stock outstanding, Danaher shareholders will receive approximately   60%   of the shares of NetScout common stock outstanding following the combination. 
  The transaction remains subject to approval by NetScout s shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to either the communications business or NetScout.  On December 24, 2014, NetScout received a request for additional information ( second request ) from the U.S. Department of Justice.  The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act until 30 days after both NetScout and Danaher have substantially complied with the request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the U.S. Department of Justice.  Upon the closing of the transaction, the Company will classify the communications business as a discontinued operation in its historical financial statements.  Sales of the communications business to be combined with NetScout represented   22%   of the sales of the Test   Measurement segment for the year ended December 31, 2014.  The transaction is expected to be completed in 2015.  
  In August 2014, the Company completed the divestiture of its electric vehicle systems ("EVS")/hybrid product line for a sale price of   $87 million   in cash.  This product line, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment, had revenues of approximately   $60 million   in 2014 prior to the divestiture and approximately   $100 million   in each of 2013 and 2012.  Operating results of the product line were not significant to segment or overall Company reported results in 2014.  The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of the product line of   $34 million   (  $26 million   after-tax or   $0.04   per diluted share) in its third quarter 2014 results.  Subsequent to the sale, the Company has no continuing involvement in the EVS/hybrid product line.  In accordance with ASU No. 2014-08,   Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity  ,     which the Company adopted at the beginning of the third quarter of 2014, the divestiture of the EVS/hybrid product line has not been classified as a discontinued operation in this Form 10-K since the disposition does not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on the Company's operations and financial statements. 
  On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc ( Cooper ), combining certain of the Company s hand tool businesses with Cooper s Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC ( Apex ).  Each of Cooper and the Company had owned a   50%   interest in Apex, had an equal number of representatives on Apex s Board of Directors and neither joint venture partner controlled the significant operating and financing activities of Apex.  The Company had accounted for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting.   
  In February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately   $1.6 billion  .  The Company received   $797 million   from the sale, consisting of cash of   $759 million   (including   $67 million   of dividends received prior to closing) and a note receivable of   $38 million   (which has been subsequently collected).  The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of   $230 million   (  $144 million   after-tax or   $0.20   per diluted share) in its first quarter 2013 results in connection with this transaction which is included as a component of other income in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 
  The gain is computed as the difference between the book value of the Company's investment in Apex at the time of sale and the fair value of the consideration received in exchange, as indicated in the table below ($ in millions): 
                     Fair value of consideration received: 
      
      Cash, including $66.6 of dividends received during 2013 prior to the closing of the sale 
    $ 
    758.6 
      
      Note receivable 
    38.5 
      
      Total fair value of consideration received 
    797.1 
      
      Less book value of investment in unconsolidated joint venture 
    545.6 
      
      Less other related costs and expenses 
    21.7 
      
      Pre-tax gain on sale of unconsolidated joint venture 
    229.8 
      
      Income tax expense 
    86.2 
      
      After-tax gain on sale of unconsolidated joint venture 
    $ 
    143.6 

The Company's share of the 2013 earnings generated by Apex prior to the closing of the sale was insignificant.  The Company recorded   $70 million   related to its equity in the earnings of Apex during the year ended December 31, 2012 reflecting its   50%   ownership position.  Subsequent to the sale of its investment in Apex, the Company has no continuing involvement in Apex's operations.     
    
    76 

       Table of Contents  

   NOTE 4.  INVENTORIES 
  The classes of inventory as of   December 31   are summarized as follows ($ in millions): 

As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the difference between inventories valued at LIFO and the value of that same inventory if the FIFO method had been used was not significant.  The liquidation of LIFO inventory did not have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations in any period presented.   
    
    NOTE 5.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
  The classes of property, plant and equipment as of   December 31   are summarized as follows ($ in millions): 

NOTE 6.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
  As discussed in Note 2, goodwill arises from the purchase price for acquired businesses exceeding the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired less assumed liabilities and non-controlling interests.  Management assesses the goodwill of each of its reporting units for impairment at least annually at the beginning of the fourth quarter and as  triggering  events occur that indicate that it is more likely than not that an impairment exists.  The Company elected to bypass the optional qualitative goodwill assessment allowed by applicable accounting standards and performed a quantitative impairment test for all reporting units as this was determined to be the most effective method to assess for impairment across a large spectrum of reporting units.   
  The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market approach, based on current trading  multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company's reporting units, in addition to recent available market sale transactions of comparable businesses.  In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach.  If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting unit's goodwill has been impaired.   
  As of   December 31, 2014  , the Company had   twenty-two   reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.  The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from   $7 million   to approximately   $4.3 billion  .    No   goodwill impairment charges were recorded for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   and no "triggering" events have occurred subsequent to the performance of the 2014 annual impairment test.  The factors used by management in its impairment analysis are inherently subject to uncertainty.  If actual results are not consistent with management s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings.   
    77 

     Table of Contents  

   The following is a rollforward of the Company's goodwill by segment ($ in millions):     

Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their legal or estimated useful life.  The following summarizes the gross carrying value and accumulated amortization for each major category of intangible asset as of December 31 ($ in millions): 

During   2014  , the Company acquired finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of customer relationships, with a weighted average life of   14   years.  Refer to Note 2 for additional information on the intangible assets acquired.   
  Total intangible amortization expense in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   $386 million  ,   $365 million   and   $342 million  , respectively.  Based on the intangible assets recorded as of   December 31, 2014  , amortization expense is estimated to be   $441 million   during   2015  ,   $397 million   during   2016  ,   $357 million   during   2017  ,   $321 million   during   2018   and   $289 million   during   2019  .    
    
    NOTE 7.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
  Accounting standards define fair value based on an exit price model, establish a framework for measuring fair value where the Company s assets and liabilities are required to be carried at fair value and provide for certain disclosures related to the valuation methods used within a valuation hierarchy as established within the accounting standards.  This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows.  Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, or other observable characteristics for the asset or liability, including interest rates, yield curves and credit risks, or inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data through correlation.  Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on the Company s assumptions.  A financial asset or liability s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.   
    78 

     Table of Contents  

   A summary of financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows ($ in millions): 

Available-for-sale securities are measured at fair value using quoted market prices in an active market and are included in other long-term assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The Company has established nonqualified deferred compensation programs that permit officers, directors and certain management employees to defer a portion of their compensation, on a pre-tax basis, until after their termination of employment (or board service, as applicable).  All amounts deferred under this plan are unfunded, unsecured obligations of the Company and are presented as a component of the Company s compensation and benefits accrual included in accrued expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 8).  Participants may choose among alternative earnings rates for the amounts they defer, which are primarily based on investment options within the Company s 401(k) program (except that the earnings rates for amounts deferred by the Company s directors and amounts contributed unilaterally by the Company are entirely based on changes in the value of the Company s common stock).  Changes in the deferred compensation liability under these programs are recognized based on changes in the fair value of the participants  accounts, which are based on the applicable earnings rates.   
  On April 2, 2014, the Company terminated the Japanese Yen/U.S. dollar currency swap agreement that had been acquired in connection with a prior business acquisition.  The currency swap agreement initially required the Company to purchase approximately   184 million   Japanese Yen (JPY/ ) at a rate of $1/   102.25   on a monthly basis through June 1, 2018.  The currency swap did not qualify for hedge accounting, and as a result, changes in the fair value of the currency swap were reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings each reporting period.  The fair value of the currency swap as of the termination date was not significant and the fair value had not changed significantly during 2014 prior to the swap being terminated.  During the years ended December 31,   2013   and 2012, the Company recorded pre-tax income of   $14 million   and   $22 million  , respectively, related to changes in the fair value of this currency swap.  The fair value of the currency swap is included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying 2013 Consolidated Balance Sheet and was not material.  Since there was not an active market for the currency swap, the Company obtained a market quote based on observable inputs, including foreign currency exchange market data, from the swap counterparties to adjust the currency swap to fair value each quarter.   
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31 were as follows ($ in millions): 

79 

     Table of Contents  

As of   December 31, 2014   and 2013, available-for-sale securities and short and long-term borrowings were categorized as Level 1.   
    
  The fair value of long-term borrowings was based on quoted market prices.  The difference between the fair value and the carrying amounts of long-term borrowings (other than the Company s Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (the  LYONs )) is attributable to changes in market interest rates and/or the Company s credit ratings subsequent to the incurrence of the borrowing.  In the case of the LYONs, differences in the fair value from the carrying value are attributable to changes in the price of the Company s common stock due to the LYONs' conversion features.  The fair values of short-term borrowings, as well as cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, net and trade accounts payable approximate their carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.   
  Refer to Note 10 for information related to the fair value of the Company sponsored defined benefit pension plan assets.    
    
    NOTE 8.  ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LIABILITIES 
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities as of   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

NOTE 9.  FINANCING 
  The components of the Company s debt as of   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

The 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes are collectively referred to as the  2011 Financing Notes .  The 2011 Financing Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes are collectively referred to as the  Notes .   
    80 

     Table of Contents  

   Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility 
  The Company satisfies any short-term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flow and available cash primarily through issuances of commercial paper under its U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs.  Under these programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes.  Interest expense on the notes is paid at maturity and is generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR.  Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The Company issued commercial paper under the Euro commercial paper program during 2014 and as of December 31, 2014,   $315 million   (   260 million  ) of commercial paper was outstanding under this program.  There was   no   commercial paper outstanding under the Euro program as of December 31, 2013.  The Company had   $450 million   in U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper outstanding as of both December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
  As of   December 31, 2014  , borrowings outstanding under the Company s U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs had a weighted average annual interest rate of   0.13%   and a weighted average remaining maturity of approximately   twelve   days.  The Company has classified its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program as of   December 31, 2014   as long-term debt in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Credit Facility referenced below, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date.   
  Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by a   $2.5 billion   unsecured multi-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on July 15, 2016 (the  Credit Facility ).  The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes.  Under the Credit Facility, borrowings (other than bid loans) bear interest at a rate equal to (at the Company s option) either (1) a LIBOR-based rate plus a margin that varies according to the Company s long-term debt credit rating (the  Eurodollar Rate ), or (2) the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus   1%  , plus in each case a margin that varies according to the Company s long-term debt credit rating.  In addition to certain initial fees the Company paid at inception of the Credit Facility, the Company is obligated to pay an annual commitment fee that varies according to its long-term debt credit rating.  The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the facility) of   0.65   to 1.00 or less, and also contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants.  As of   December 31, 2014  ,   no   borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility and the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the facility.  The non-performance by any member of the Credit Facility syndicate would reduce the maximum capacity of the Credit Facility by such member's commitment amount.  In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit.   
  The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Company s commercial paper program.  The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would leave sufficient credit available under the facility to allow the Company to borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures.   
  Other Long-Term Indebtedness 
  2013 Notes, 2014 Notes, 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes   On June 23, 2011, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes, the   $300 million   principal amount of floating rate unsecured senior notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes") and the 2014 Notes, all of which are (or in the case of the 2013 Notes and 2014 Notes were) unsecured.  The 2013 Notes were issued at   100%   of their principal amount, accrued interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus   0.25%   per year and matured and were repaid in June 2013.  The 2014 Notes were issued at   99.918%   of their principal amount, accrued interest at the rate of   1.3%   per year and matured and were repaid in June 2014.  The 2016 Notes were issued at   99.84%   of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2016 and accrue interest at the rate of   2.3%   per year.  The 2021 Notes were issued at   99.975%   of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2021 and accrue interest at the rate of   3.9%   per year.  The net proceeds from the 2011 Financing Notes, 2013 Notes and 2014 Notes offering, after deducting expenses and the underwriters  discount, were approximately   $1.8 billion   and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Beckman Coulter.  The Company paid interest on the 2013 Notes quarterly in arrears on March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year.  The Company paid interest on the 2014 Notes and pays interest on the 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on June 23 and December 23 of each year.   
  2019 Notes   In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2019 Notes, which were issued at   99.93%   of their principal amount, will mature on March 1, 2019 and accrue interest at the rate of   5.4%   per year.  The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were approximately   $745 million  .  A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Company s outstanding commercial paper and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The Company pays interest on the 2019 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year.   
    81 

     Table of Contents  

   2018 Notes   In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2018 Notes, which were issued at   99.39%   of their principal amount, will mature on January 15, 2018 and accrue interest at the rate of   5.625%   per year.  The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters  discount, were approximately   $493 million  , which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of the Tektronix business.  The Company pays interest on the 2018 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on January 15 and July 15 of each year.   
  2016 Bonds   In connection with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare in December 2014, the Company acquired bonds with an aggregate principal amount of   CHF 120 million   and a stated interest rate of   4.0%   per year.  In accordance with accounting for business combinations, the bonds were recorded at their fair value of   CHF 127 million   (  $133 million   based on exchange rates in effect at the time of the acquisition), as such, for accounting purposes interest charges recorded in the Company's statement of earnings reflect an effective interest rate of approximately   0.2%   per year.  The Company will pay interest on the 2016 Bonds annually in arrears on October 10 of each year (based on the stated   4.0%   interest rate).  The 2016 Bonds mature on October 10, 2016.  
  LYONs   In 2001, the Company issued   $830 million   (value at maturity) in LYONs.  The net proceeds to the Company were   $505 million  , of which approximately   $100 million   was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of   2.375%   (with contingent interest payable as described below).  Holders of the LYONs may convert each   $1,000   of principal amount at maturity into   29.0704   shares of the Company s common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately   24 million   shares of the Company s common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021.  As of   December 31, 2014  , an aggregate of approximately   20 million   shares of the Company s common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs.  As of   December 31, 2014  , the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion.  The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices.     
  Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company pays contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals   120%   or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON.  The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either   0.0315%   of the bonds  average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON.  The Company paid   $2 million  ,   $1 million   and   $1 million   of contingent interest on the LYONs for each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  , 2013 and 2012, respectively.  Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity.   
  Eurobond Notes   On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the United States.  Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes were guaranteed by the Company.  The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were    496 million   (  $627 million   based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Company s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The Eurobond Notes matured and were repaid in July 2013.   
  Covenants and Redemption Provisions Applicable to the Notes and the 2016 Bonds 
  The Company may redeem some or all of the 2016 Notes, the 2018 Notes and/or the 2019 Notes at any time by paying the principal amount and a  make-whole  premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  Prior to March 23, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes by paying the principal amount and a  make-whole  premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  On or after March 23, 2021, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.  At any time after 85% or more of the 2016 Bonds have been redeemed or purchased and canceled, the Company may redeem some or all of the remaining 2016 Bonds for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.  If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to the Notes, each holder of Notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of its Notes at a purchase price equal to   101%   of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest.  A change of control triggering event means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event, each as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture.  Except in connection with a change of control triggering event as described above, the Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt.  
  The indentures pursuant to which the Notes were issued each contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions, and the 2016 Bonds are subject to similar covenants.  None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Company s operations and as of   December 31, 2014  , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.  
    82 

     Table of Contents  

   Other 
  The minimum principal payments during the next five years are as follows:   2015   -   $72 million  ,   2016   -   $1,402 million  ,   2017   -   $6 million  ,   2018   -   $506 million  ,   2019   -   $754 million   and   $733 million   thereafter.   
  The Company made interest payments of   $118 million  ,   $151 million   and   $150 million   in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   
    
    NOTE 10.  PENSION BENEFIT PLANS 
  The Company has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans which cover certain of its U.S. employees.  During 2012, all remaining benefit accruals under the U.S. plans ceased.  The Company also has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans which cover certain of its non-U.S. employees, and under certain of these plans, benefit accruals continue.  In general, the Company s policy is to fund these plans based on considerations relating to legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan s funded status, the anticipated deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors.   
  The following sets forth the funded status of the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of the most recent actuarial valuations using measurement dates of December 31 ($ in millions): 

Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at date of measurement: 

83 

     Table of Contents  

   Components of net periodic pension cost: 

Net periodic pension costs are included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 
  Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension cost at date of measurement: 

The discount rate reflects the market rate on   December 31   for high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to the Company s benefit obligations and is subject to change each year.  For non-U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan.  During 2014, the Company updated the mortality assumptions used to estimate the projected benefit obligation to reflect updated mortality tables which extend the life expectancy of the participants.  
    
  Included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of   December 31, 2014   are the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost: unrecognized prior service credits of   $1 million   (  $1 million  , net of tax) and unrecognized actuarial losses of approximately   $1.1 billion   (  $720 million  , net of tax).  The unrecognized losses and prior service credits, net, is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined projected benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets less accrued pension costs as of   December 31, 2014  .  The prior service credits and actuarial losses included in accumulated comprehensive income and expected to be recognized in net periodic pension costs during the year ending   December 31, 2015   is   $0.2 million   (  $0.1 million  , net of tax) and   $43 million   (  $30 million  , net of tax), respectively.  No plan assets are expected to be returned to the Company during the year ending   December 31, 2015  .   
  Selection of Expected Rate of Return on Assets 
  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , the Company used an expected long-term rate of return assumption of   7.5%   for its U.S. defined benefit pension plan.  The Company intends to use an expected long-term rate of return assumption of   7.5%   for   2015   for its U.S. plan.  This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan, and is based primarily on broad, publicly traded equity and fixed-income indices and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and investment management.  Long-term rate of return on asset assumptions for the non-U.S. plans were determined on a plan-by-plan basis based on the composition of assets and ranged from   1.25%   to   7.10%   and   1.25%   to   6.70%   in   2014   and   2013  , respectively, with a weighted average rate of return assumption of   4.80%   and   4.65%   in   2014   and   2013  , respectively.   
    84 

     Table of Contents  

   Plan Assets 
  The U.S. plan s goal is to maintain between   60%   and   70%   of its assets in equity portfolios, which are invested in individual equity securities or funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments, such as venture capital funds and partnerships.  Asset holdings are periodically rebalanced when equity holdings are outside this range.  The balance of the U.S. plan asset portfolio is invested in bond funds.  Non-U.S. plan assets are invested in various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan.  The value of the plan assets directly affects the funded status of the Company s pension plans recorded in the financial statements.   
  The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets for both the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of   December 31, 2014  , by asset category were as follows ($ in millions): 

The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets for both the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of   December 31, 2013  , by asset category were as follows ($ in millions): 

85 

     Table of Contents  

   Preferred stock and certain common stock and mutual funds are valued at the quoted closing price reported on the active market on which the individual securities are traded.  Common stock, corporate bonds, U.S. government securities and mutual funds that are not traded on an active market are valued at quoted prices reported by investment brokers and dealers based on the underlying terms of the security and comparison to similar securities traded on an active market.   
  Common/collective trusts are valued based on the plan s interest, represented by investment units, in the underlying investments held within the trust that are traded in an active market by the trustee.   
  Venture capital, partnerships and other private investments are valued based on the information provided by the asset fund managers, which reflects the plan s share of the fair value of the net assets of the investment.  The investments are valued using a combination of either discounted cash flows, earnings and market multiples, third party appraisals or through reference to the quoted market prices of the underlying investments held by the venture, partnership or private entity where available.  Valuation adjustments reflect changes in operating results, financial condition, or prospects of the applicable portfolio company.   
  The methods described above may produce a fair value estimate that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.  Furthermore, while the Company believes the valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with the methods used by other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date.   
  The following is a rollforward of the fair value of the Company's Level 3 venture capital, partnerships and other private investments ($ in millions): 

Expected Contributions 
  During   2014  , the Company contributed   $52 million   to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and   $62 million   to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  During   2015  , the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately   $25 million   and   $55 million  , respectively.     
  The following sets forth benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to be paid by the plans in the periods indicated ($ in millions): 

86 

     Table of Contents  

   Other Matters 
  Substantially all employees not covered by defined benefit plans are covered by defined contribution plans, which generally provide for Company funding based on a percentage of compensation.   
  A limited number of the Company s subsidiaries participate in multiemployer defined benefit and contribution plans, primarily outside of the United States, that require the Company to periodically contribute funds to the plan.  The risks of participating in a multiemployer plan differ from the risks of participating in a single-employer plan in the following respects: (1) assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers, (2) if a participating employer ceases contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be required to be borne by the remaining participating employers and (3) if the Company elects to stop participating in the plan, the Company may be required to pay the plan an amount based on the unfunded status of the plan.  None of the multiemployer plans in which the Company s subsidiaries participate are considered to be quantitatively or qualitatively significant, either individually or in the aggregate.  In addition, contributions made to these plans during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   were not considered significant, either individually or in the aggregate.   
  Expense for all defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans amounted to   $210 million  ,   $193 million   and   $181 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   
    
    NOTE 11.  OTHER POST-RETIREMENT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
  In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for some of its retired employees in the United States.  Certain employees may become eligible for these benefits as they reach normal retirement age while working for the Company.  The following sets forth the funded status of the domestic plans as of the most recent actuarial valuations using measurement dates of December 31 ($ in millions): 

As of   December 31, 2014   and 2013,   $202 million   and   $177 million  , respectively, of the total underfunded status of the plan was recognized as long-term accrued post-retirement liability since it was not expected to be funded within one year.     
  Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at date of measurement: 

87 

     Table of Contents  

   Effect of a one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates: 
    
                             ($ in millions) 
    1% Increase 
      
    1% Decrease 
      Effect on the total of service and interest cost components 
    $ 
    0.6 

$ 
    (0.4 
    ) 
      Effect on post-retirement medical benefit obligation 
    8.1 

(7.2 
    ) 

The medical trend rate used to determine the post-retirement benefit obligation was   7.1%   for   2014  .  The rate decreases gradually to an ultimate rate of   4.5%   in   2028   and remains at that level thereafter.  The trend is a significant factor in determining the amounts reported.   
  Components of net periodic benefit cost: 

Net periodic benefit costs are included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.   
  Included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of   December 31, 2014   are the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost: unrecognized prior service credits of   $30 million   (  $20 million  , net of tax) and unrecognized actuarial losses of   $44 million   (  $29 million  , net of tax).  The unrecognized losses and prior service credits, net, is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined projected benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets less accrued benefit costs as of   December 31, 2014  .  The prior service credits and actuarial losses included in accumulated comprehensive income and expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit costs during the year ending   December 31, 2015   is   $3 million   (  $2 million  , net of tax) and   $3 million   (  $2 million  , net of tax), respectively.   
  The following sets forth benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to be paid in the periods indicated ($ in millions): 

NOTE 12.  INCOME TAXES FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS  
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

88 

     Table of Contents  

   The provision for income taxes from continuing operations for the years ended   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

The provision for income taxes from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2012 was   $55 million  .   
  Net current deferred income tax assets are reflected in prepaid expenses and other current assets and net long-term deferred income tax liabilities are included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

The Company evaluates the future realizability of tax credits and loss carryforwards considering the anticipated future earnings of the Company s subsidiaries as well as tax planning strategies in the associated jurisdictions.  Deferred taxes associated with U.S. entities consist of net deferred tax liabilities of approximately   $1.8 billion   and   $1.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  Deferred taxes associated with non-U.S. entities consist of net deferred tax liabilities of   $76 million   and   $57 million   as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  During 2014, the Company's valuation allowance decreased by   $68 million   primarily due to releases of valuation allowances on net operating losses in various foreign jurisdictions and write-offs of certain foreign net operating losses and corresponding valuation allowances, partially offset by increases attributable to acquisitions and foreign net operating losses.  
    89 

     Table of Contents  

   The effective income tax rate for the years ended   December 31   varies from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate as follows: 

The Company s effective tax rate for each of   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of   35.0%   due principally to the Company s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate.  The effective tax rates for 2014 and 2013 also include the benefit from the reinstatement of certain tax benefits and credits resulting from the enactments of the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 and the America Tax Relief Act of 2012.  In addition, the effective tax rate of   25.4%   in 2014 includes tax expense for audit settlements in various jurisdictions and changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitations.  The effective tax rates of   24.4%   in 2013 and   23.6%   in 2012 include recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolutions of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions and the lapse of certain statutes of limitations, partially offset by adjustments of reserve estimates related to prior period uncertain tax positions.  The matters referenced above have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and in the aggregate increased the provision for income taxes by approximately 165 basis points in   2014   and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 20 basis points in   2013   and 30 basis points in   2012  . 
  The Company made income tax payments related to continuing operations of   $569 million  ,   $529 million   and   $355 million   in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  In addition, the Company made tax payments related to discontinued operations, including the gain on the sale of ASI and KEO (refer to Note 3) totaling   $55 million   in 2012.  Current income tax payable has been reduced by   $82 million  ,   $80 million  , and   $106 million   in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, for tax deductions attributable to stock-based compensation, of which, the excess tax benefit over the amount recorded for financial reporting purposes was   $50 million  ,   $49 million   and   $70 million  , respectively, and has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and is reflected as a financing cash inflow in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   
  Included in deferred income taxes as of   December 31, 2014   are tax benefits for U.S. and non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards totaling   $380 million   (net of applicable valuation allowances of   $319 million  ).  Certain of the losses can be carried forward indefinitely and others can be carried forward to various dates from 2015 through 2034.  In addition, the Company had general business and foreign tax credit carryforwards of   $159 million   (net of applicable valuation allowances of   $12 million  ) as of   December 31, 2014  , which can be carried forward to various dates from 2015 to 2024. 
  As of   December 31, 2014  , gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled   $728 million   (  $687 million  , net of the impact of   $172 million   of indirect tax benefits offset by   $131 million   associated with potential interest and penalties).  As of   December 31, 2013  , gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled   $689 million   (  $634 million  , net of the impact of   $179 million   of indirect tax benefits offset by   $124 million   associated with potential interest and penalties).  The Company recognized approximately   $44 million  ,   $43 million   and   $34 million   in potential interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  To the extent unrecognized tax benefits (including interest and penalties) are not assessed with respect to uncertain tax positions, substantially all amounts accrued, net of indirect offsets, will be reduced and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision.  Unrecognized tax benefits and associated accrued interest and penalties are included in taxes, income and other in accrued expenses as detailed in Note 8.   
    90 

     Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding amounts accrued for potential interest and penalties, is as follows ($ in millions): 

The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the United States federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.  The countries in which the Company has a significant presence that have lower statutory tax rates than the United States include China, Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom.  The Company's ability to obtain a tax benefit from lower statutory tax rates outside of the United States is dependent on its levels of taxable income in these foreign countries.  The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company's financial statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company's taxable income. 
  The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities.  The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) has completed examinations of certain of the Company's federal income tax returns through 2009 and is currently examining certain of the Company's federal income tax returns for 2010 and 2011.  The Company's U.S. tax returns for 2012 and 2013 remain open for examination by the IRS.  In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2002 through 2013. 
    
  Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company's subsidiaries.  On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority ( SKAT ) totaling approximately   DKK 1.2 billion   (approximately   $190 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) including interest through December 31, 2014, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company's subsidiaries for the years 2004-2009.  If the SKAT claims are successful, it is likely that the Company would be assessed additional amounts for years 2010-2012 totaling approximately   DKK 650 million   (approximately   $106 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014).  Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and intends to vigorously defend its positions.  The Company appealed these assessments with the National Tax Tribunal in 2014 and intends on pursuing this matter through the European Court of Justice should this appeal be unsuccessful.  The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company's financial statements, including its effective tax rate. 
  As previously disclosed, German tax authorities had raised issues related to the deductibility and taxability of interest accrued by certain of the Company s subsidiaries.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the German tax authorities to resolve these open matters through 2014.  The Company recorded    49 million   (approximately   $60 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) of expense for taxes and interest related to this settlement during the fourth quarter of 2014.  
  Management estimates that it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced by approximately   $75 million   within twelve months as a result of resolution of worldwide tax matters, tax audit settlements and/or statute expirations.   
  The Company operates in various non-U.S. tax jurisdictions where  tax holiday  income tax incentives have been granted for a specified period.  These tax benefits are not material to the Company s financial statements.   
    91 

     Table of Contents  

   As of   December 31, 2014  , the Company held   $2.2 billion   of cash and cash equivalents outside of the United States.  While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company's foreign cash balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits.  For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States.  A deferred tax liability has been accrued for the funds that are available to be repatriated to the United States.  No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings.  The cash that the Company s foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions.  As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately   $11.8 billion   and   $10.6 billion  , respectively.    
    
    NOTE 13.  OTHER INCOME  
  Other income for the years ended   December 31   consist of the following ($ in millions): 

During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $167 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pre-tax gain related to these sales of   $123 million   (  $77 million   after-tax or   $0.11   per diluted share).  During the fourth quarter of   2013  , the Company sold approximately   5 million   of the approximately   8 million   shares of Align Technology, Inc. ("Align") common stock that the Company received in 2009 as a result of a settlement between Align and Ormco Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.  The Company received cash proceeds of   $251 million   from the sale of these marketable equity securities and recorded a pre-tax gain of   $202 million   (  $125 million   after-tax or   $0.18   per diluted share).  
  Refer to Note 3 for information related to the   $34 million   gain on the Company's divestiture of its EVS/hybrid product line in 2014 and the   $230 million   gain on the sale of the Company's equity interest in Apex in 2013.  
    
    NOTE 14.  RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER RELATED CHARGES 
  During 2014, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other related charges totaling   $154 million  .  Substantially all restructuring activities initiated in 2014 were completed by December 31, 2014 resulting in   $127 million   of employee severance and related charges and   $27 million   of facility exit and other related charges.  The Company expects substantially all cash payments associated with remaining termination benefits will be paid during 2015.  During 2013, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other related charges totaling   $107 million  .  Substantially all planned restructuring activities related to the 2013 plans were completed by December 31, 2013 resulting in approximately   $82 million   of employee severance and related charges and   $25 million   of facility exit and other related charges.  During 2012, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring and other related charges totaling   $123 million  .  Substantially all planned restructuring activities related to the 2012 plans were completed by December 31, 2012 resulting in approximately   $112 million   of employee severance and related charges and   $11 million   of facility exit and other related charges.   
  The nature of the Company's restructuring and related activities initiated in 2014, 2013 and 2012 were broadly consistent throughout the Company s reportable segments and focused on improvements in operational efficiency through targeted workforce reductions and facility consolidations and closures.  These costs were incurred to position the Company to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner, and taking into consideration broad economic uncertainties.  
  In conjunction with the closing of facilities, certain inventory was written off as unusable in future operating locations.  This inventory consisted primarily of component parts and raw materials, which were either redundant to inventory at the facilities being merged or were not economically feasible to relocate since the inventory was purchased to operate on equipment and tooling which was not being relocated.  In addition, asset impairment charges have been recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of the long-lived assets that will be sold or disposed of to their estimated fair values.  Charges for the asset impairment  
    92 

     Table of Contents  

   reduce the carrying amount of the long-lived assets to their estimated salvage value in connection with the decision to dispose of such assets.   
  Restructuring and other related charges recorded for the year ended   December 31   by segment were as follows ($ in millions): 

The table below summarizes the accrual balance and utilization by type of restructuring cost associated with the 2014 and 2013 actions ($ in millions): 

The restructuring and other related charges incurred during 2014 include cash charges of   $143 million   and   $11 million   of non-cash charges.  The restructuring and other related charges incurred during 2013 and 2012 include cash charges of   $101 million   and   $120 million   and   $6 million   and   $3 million   of non-cash charges, respectively.  These charges are reflected in the following captions in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings ($ in millions): 

NOTE 15.  LEASES AND COMMITMENTS 
  The Company s operating leases extend for varying periods of time up to   twenty   years and, in some cases, contain renewal options that would extend existing terms beyond   twenty   years.  Future minimum rental payments for all operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year are   $182 million   in   2015  ,   $146 million   in   2016  ,   $117 million   in   2017  ,   $80 million   in   2018  ,   $60 million   in   2019   and   $100 million   thereafter.  Total rent expense for all operating leases was   $232 million  ,   $245 million   and   $247 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.   
  The Company generally accrues estimated warranty costs at the time of sale.  In general, manufactured products are warranted against defects in material and workmanship when properly used for their intended purpose, installed correctly, and appropriately maintained.  Warranty periods depend on the nature of the product and range from   ninety   days up to the life of the product.  The amount of the accrued warranty liability is determined based on historical information such as past experience, product failure rates or number of units repaired, estimated cost of material and labor, and in certain instances estimated property damage.  The accrued warranty liability is reviewed on a quarterly basis and may be adjusted as additional information regarding expected warranty costs becomes known. 
    93 

     Table of Contents  

   The following is a rollforward of the Company s accrued warranty liability ($ in millions): 

NOTE 16.  LITIGATION AND CONTINGENCIES 
  The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  These matters primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Company s products, software and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices,   environmental matters,   personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture related matters, as well as regulatory investigations or enforcement.  The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses.  Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive, consequential and/or compensatory damages, as well as injunctive relief.  Based upon the Company s experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe it is reasonably possible that   any amounts it may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of its reserves as of December 31, 2014 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements  .   
  While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers  compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors  and officers  liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover certain of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses.  For general, products and property liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self-insured retention.  In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses.   
  The Company records a liability in the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued.  If a loss does not meet the known or probable level but is reasonably possible and a loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed.  The Company's reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims.  The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk professionals where appropriate.  In addition, outside risk professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Company s specific loss history, actual claims reported and industry trends among statistical and other factors.  Reserve estimates may be adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known.  Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in the Company s settlement strategy.  While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers   and indemnifying parties  , it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude.  If the Company s self-insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s financial statements.  Refer to Note 8 for information about the amount of the Company s accruals for self-insurance and litigation liability.   
    94 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, the Company s operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the generation, use, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes.  A number of the Company s operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws.  The Company must also comply with various health and safety regulations in both the United States and abroad in connection with the Company's operations.  Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had and, based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and the Company does not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.   
  In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company from time to time incurs costs related to alleged damages associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  For example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the current and former owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority.  The Company has received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and from state and non-U.S. environmental agencies, that conditions at certain sites where the Company and others previously disposed of hazardous wastes and/or are or were property owners require clean-up and other possible remedial action, including sites where the Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party under U.S. federal and state environmental laws.  The Company has projects underway at a number of current and former facilities, in both the United States and abroad, to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations.  Remediation activities generally relate to soil and/or groundwater contamination and may include pre-remedial activities such as fact-finding and investigation, risk assessment, feasibility study and/or design, as well as remediation actions such as contaminant removal, monitoring and/or installation, operation and maintenance of longer-term remediation systems.  The Company is also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances.   
  The Company has recorded a provision for environmental investigation and remediation and environmental-related claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and third party sites where the Company has been determined to be a potentially responsible party.  The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies, as well as its prior experience with similar sites.  The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Company s involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations.  If the Company determines that potential liability for a particular site or with respect to a personal injury claim is known or considered probable and reasonably estimable, the Company accrues the total estimated loss, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site or claim.  As of   December 31, 2014  , the Company had a reserve of   $119 million   for environmental matters which are known or considered probable and reasonably estimable (of which   $78 million   are non-current), which reflects the Company's best estimate of the costs to be incurred with respect to such matters.  Refer to Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the Company s environmental reserves.   
  All reserves have been recorded without giving effect to any possible future third party recoveries.  While the Company actively pursues insurance recoveries, as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude.   
  The Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions.  Danaher s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights.  In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding.  While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.   
    95 

     Table of Contents  

   As of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the Company had approximately   $433 million   and   $379 million  , respectively, of guarantees consisting primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds.  These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions.  The Company believes that if the obligations under these instruments were triggered, it would not have a material effect on its financial statements.    
    
    NOTE 17.  STOCK TRANSACTIONS AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
  On July 16, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors approved a repurchase program (the  2013 Repurchase Program ) authorizing the repurchase of up to   20 million   shares of the Company's common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  The 2013 Repurchase Program replaced the repurchase program approved by the Company's Board of Directors in May 2010 (the  2010 Repurchase Program ).  There is no expiration date for the 2013 Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company's management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.  The 2013 Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company's equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2014,   20 million   shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the 2013 Repurchase Program. 
    
  Neither the Company nor any  affiliated purchaser  repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2014 and 2013.  During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company repurchased approximately   12.5 million   shares of Company common stock under the 2010 Repurchase Program in open market transactions at a cost of   $648 million  .  
  Stock options and RSUs have been issued to directors, officers and other employees under the Company s 1998 Stock Option Plan and the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.  In addition, in connection with the November 2007 Tektronix acquisition, the Company assumed the Tektronix 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and the Tektronix 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Tektronix Plans ) and assumed certain outstanding stock options, restricted stock and RSUs that had been awarded to Tektronix employees under the plans.  These plans operate in a similar manner to the Company s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and 1998 Stock Option Plan.  No further equity awards will be issued under the 1998 Stock Option Plan or the Tektronix Plans.  The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, restricted stock, performance stock units or any other stock based award.  In May 2011 and May 2013, the Company s shareholders approved amendments to the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan that, among other items, authorized the issuance of an additional   24 million   shares pursuant to the plan bringing the total number of shares authorized for issuance under the plan to   62 million  .  No more than   19 million   of the   62 million   authorized shares may be granted in any form other than stock options or stock appreciation rights.   
  Stock options granted under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, the 1998 Stock Option Plan and the Tektronix Plans generally vest pro-rata over a   five   year period and terminate   ten   years from the grant date, though the specific terms of each grant are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board (the  Compensation Committee ).  The Company s executive officers and certain other employees have been awarded options with different vesting criteria, and options granted to outside directors are fully vested as of the grant date.  Option exercise prices for options granted by the Company under these plans equal the closing price of the Company s common stock on the NYSE on the date of grant.  Option exercise prices for the options outstanding under the Tektronix Plans were based on the closing price of Tektronix common stock on the date of grant.  In connection with the Company s assumption of these options, the number of shares underlying each option and exercise price of each option were adjusted to reflect the substitution of the Company s stock for the Tektronix stock underlying these awards.   
  RSUs issued under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 1998 Stock Option Plan provide for the issuance of a share of the Company s common stock at no cost to the holder.  Most RSU awards granted prior to the third quarter of 2009 were granted subject to performance criteria determined by the Compensation Committee, and RSU awards granted during or after the third quarter of 2009 to members of the Company s senior management are also subject to performance criteria.  The RSUs that have been granted to employees under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 1998 Stock Option Plan generally provide for time-based vesting over a   five   year period, although the specific time-based vesting terms vary depending on grant date and on whether the recipient is a member of senior management.  The RSUs that have been granted to directors under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan vest on the earlier of the first anniversary of the grant date or the date of, and immediately prior to, the next annual meeting of the Company s shareholders following the grant date, but the underlying shares are not issued until the earlier of the director s death or the first day of the seventh month following the director s retirement from the Board.  Prior to vesting, RSUs do not have dividend equivalent rights, do not have voting rights and the shares underlying the RSUs are not considered issued and outstanding.   
    96 

     Table of Contents  

   Restricted shares issued under the Tektronix Plans were granted subject to certain time-based vesting restrictions such that the restricted share awards fully vested after a period of   five   years.  The holders of these restricted shares had the right to vote such shares and receive dividends and the shares were considered issued and outstanding at the date the award was granted.  As of   December 31, 2014  , all of the restricted shares and RSUs granted under the Tektronix Plans have fully vested.   
  The options, RSUs and restricted shares generally vest only if the employee is employed by the Company (or in the case of directors, the director continues to serve on the Company Board) on the vesting date or in other limited circumstances.  To cover the exercise of options and vesting of RSUs, the Company generally issues new shares from its authorized but unissued share pool, although it may instead issue treasury shares in certain circumstances.  In connection with the NetScout transaction disclosed in Note 3, the Company has agreed to: (i) allow stock options held by employees of the Company's communications business that are scheduled to vest between the closing date and August 4, 2015 to vest in accordance with their terms and remain exercisable for up to 90 days following such vesting date, and (ii) allow RSUs held by employees of the Company's communications business that are scheduled to vest between the closing date and August 4, 2015 to vest in accordance with their terms.  As of   December 31, 2014  , approximately   25 million   shares of the Company s common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.   
  The Company accounts for stock-based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, RSUs and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date.  The Company recognizes the compensation expense over the requisite service period (which is generally the vesting period but may be shorter than the vesting period if the employee becomes retirement eligible before the end of the vesting period).  The fair value for RSU and restricted stock awards was calculated using the closing price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant, adjusted for the fact that RSUs do not accrue dividends.  The fair value of the options granted was calculated using a Black-Scholes Merton option pricing model ( Black-Scholes ).   
  The following summarizes the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model to value options granted during the years ended December 31: 

The Black-Scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards.  The risk-free rate of interest for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on a zero-coupon U.S. government instrument whose maturity period equals or approximates the option s expected term.  Expected volatility is based on implied volatility from traded options on the Company s stock and historical volatility of the Company s stock.  The dividend yield is calculated by dividing the Company s annual dividend, based on the most recent quarterly dividend rate, by the closing stock price on the grant date.  To estimate the option exercise timing used in the valuation model, in addition to considering the vesting period and contractual term of the option, the Company analyzes and considers actual historical exercise experience for previously granted options.  The Company stratifies its employee population into multiple groups for option valuation and attribution purposes based upon distinctive patterns of forfeiture rates and option holding periods.   
  The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is also based on the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest.  The Company estimates pre-vesting forfeitures at the time of grant by analyzing historical data and revises those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.  Ultimately, the total expense recognized over the vesting period will equal the fair value of awards that actually vest.   
    97 

     Table of Contents  

   The following summarizes the components of the Company s stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31 ($ in millions): 

Stock-based compensation has been recognized as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  As of   December 31, 2014  ,   $151 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately   three   years.  As of   December 31, 2014  ,   $129 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately   three   years.  Both amounts will be adjusted for any future changes in estimated forfeitures.   
  The following summarizes option activity under the Company s stock plans (in millions; except exercise price and number of years): 

(1)   
    The  Expected to Vest  options are the net unvested options that remain after applying the forfeiture rate assumption to total unvested options.   
       98 

     Table of Contents  

   The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the Company s closing stock price on the last trading day of   2014   and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on   December 31, 2014  .  The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the price of the Company s common stock.  
  Options outstanding as of   December 31, 2014   are summarized below: 

The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   $154 million  ,   $165 million   and   $226 million  , respectively.  Exercise of options during the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   resulted in cash receipts of   $125 million  ,   $158 million  , and   $201 million  , respectively.  Upon exercise of the award by the employee, the Company derives a tax deduction measured by the excess of the market value over the grant price at the date of exercise.  The Company realized a tax benefit of   $46 million  ,   $52 million  , and   $75 million   in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, related to the exercise of employee stock options.  The net income tax benefit in excess of the expense recorded for financial reporting purposes (the  excess tax benefit ) has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and is reflected as a financing cash inflow in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   
  The following summarizes information on unvested RSUs and restricted shares activity (in millions; except weighted average grant-date fair value): 

The Company realized a tax benefit of   $36 million  ,   $28 million   and   $31 million   in the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, related to the vesting of RSUs.  The excess tax benefit attributable to RSUs and restricted stock have been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and is reflected as a financing cash inflow in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   
    99 

     Table of Contents  

   In connection with the exercise of certain stock options and the vesting of RSUs and restricted shares previously issued by the Company, a number of shares sufficient to fund statutory minimum tax withholding requirements has been withheld from the total shares issued or released to the award holder (though under the terms of the applicable plan, the shares are considered to have been issued and are not added back to the pool of shares available for grant).  During the year ended   December 31, 2014  ,   568 thousand   shares with an aggregate value of   $43 million   were withheld to satisfy the requirement.  During the year ended   December 31, 2013  ,   523 thousand   shares with an aggregate value of   $34 million   were withheld to satisfy the requirement.  The withholding is treated as a reduction in additional paid-in capital in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity.    
    
    NOTE 18.  NET EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 
  Basic net earnings per share ( EPS ) from continuing operations is calculated by dividing net earnings from continuing operations by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the applicable period.  Diluted net EPS from continuing operations is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the number of additional shares that would have been outstanding had the potentially dilutive common shares been issued and reduced by the number of shares the Company could have repurchased with the proceeds from the issuance of the potentially dilutive shares.  For each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , approximately   2 million   options to purchase shares were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation as the impact of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.   
  Information related to the calculation of net earnings from continuing operations per share of common stock is summarized as follows ($ and shares in millions, except per share amounts): 

100 

       Table of Contents  

   NOTE 19.  SEGMENT INFORMATION 
  The Company operates and reports its results in   five   separate business segments consisting of the Test   Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences   Diagnostics, Dental and Industrial Technologies segments.  In addition, the Company s equity in earnings of the Apex joint venture is shown separately in the Company s segment disclosures.  Operating profit represents total revenues less operating expenses, excluding other expense, interest and income taxes.  The identifiable assets by segment are those used in each segment s operations.  Inter-segment amounts are not significant and are eliminated to arrive at consolidated totals.   
  Detailed segment data for the years ended December 31 is as follows ($ in millions): 

101 

       Table of Contents  

Operations in Geographical Areas 
  Year Ended December 31 

Sales by Major Product Group 
  Year Ended December 31 

102 

       Table of Contents  

   NOTE 20.  QUARTERLY DATA-UNAUDITED ($ in millions, except per share data) 

* Basic net earnings per share does not cross add to the full year amount due to rounding. 

103 

       Table of Contents  

   ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
  Not applicable. 
    
    ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Based on such evaluation, the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
  Management s annual report on our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the independent registered public accounting firm s audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are included in our financial statements for the year ended   December 31, 2014   included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the headings  Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. 
  The Company completed the acquisition of more than 97% of the outstanding common stock of Nobel Biocare on December 11, 2014 and completed the acquisition of Devicor Medical Products on December 3, 2014.  Since the Company has not yet fully incorporated the internal controls and procedures of either of these businesses into the Company s internal control over financial reporting, management excluded each of these businesses from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014.  Nobel Biocare and Devicor Medical Products constituted approximately 7% and 1% of the Company s total assets as of December 31, 2014, respectively, and each accounted for less than 1% of the Company s total revenues for the year then ended. 
  There have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company s most recent completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
    ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
  In February 2015, Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., Danaher s President and Chief Executive Officer, entered into a pre-arranged stock trading plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act and Danaher s policy with respect to the adoption of 10b5-1 plans.  The plan is intended to allow Mr. Joyce to, over an extended period of time on pre-arranged dates, exercise and sell options that are approaching their expiration dates and sell shares acquired upon the vesting of restricted stock units. 
    
  Under the plan, Mr. Joyce may sell in the open market at prevailing prices on specified dates (subject to minimum price thresholds set forth in the plan) an aggregate of up to 135,741 shares to be acquired upon vesting of restricted stock units and upon exercise of stock options that are scheduled to expire in February 2017.  Any sales will be made during the period from April 2015 until the plan terminates in January 2016.  The transactions under the plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 144 and Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
    
  Certain other officers and directors of Danaher may from time to time enter into trading plans established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1.  Except to the extent required by law, Danaher does not undertake to report Rule 10b5-1 plans that may be adopted by any officers or directors in the future or to report any modifications or terminations of any publicly announced trading plan. 
    104 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
    
    ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  Other than the information below, the information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Election of Directors of Danaher  ,   Corporate Governance   and   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2015   annual meeting and to the information under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I hereof.  No nominee for director was selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the nominee and any person other than the Company pursuant to which such person is or was to be selected as a director or nominee. 
  Code of Ethics 
  We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers (including Danaher s principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) and employees, known as the Standards of Conduct.  The Standards of Conduct are available in the  Investors   Corporate Governance  section of our website at www.danaher.com. 
  We intend to disclose any amendment to the Standards of Conduct that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, and any waiver from a provision of the Standards of Conduct granted to any director, principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or any of our other executive officers, in the  Investors   Corporate Governance  section of our website, at www.danaher.com, within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver. 
    
    ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Executive Compensation   and   Director Compensation   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2015   annual meeting (other than the Compensation Committee Report, which shall not be deemed to be  filed ). 
    
    ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Beneficial Ownership of Danaher Common Stock by Directors, Officers and Principal Shareholders   and   Equity Compensation Plan Information   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2015   annual meeting. 
    
    ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Corporate Governance   and   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2015   annual meeting. 
    
    ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled   Proposal 2 - Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2015   annual meeting. 
    
    PART IV 
    
    ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
    
           a) 
    The following documents are filed as part of this report. 
              (1) 
    Financial Statements.  The financial statements are set forth under  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
              (2) 
    Schedules. An index of Exhibits and Schedules is on page 106 of this report.  Schedules other than those listed below have been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K because they are not required, are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto. 
              (3) 
    Exhibits.  The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
       105 

     Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION 
  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

Page Number in 
  Form 10-K 
      Schedule: 
      
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
    113 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

106 

     Table of Contents  

107 

     Table of Contents  

                        10.11 
      
    Amendment to Danaher Corporation and Subsidiaries Executive Deferred Incentive Program* 

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 to Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.12 
      
    Danaher Corporation 2007 Executive Cash Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended* 
       
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2012 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.13 
      
    Danaher Corporation Senior Leader Severance Pay Plan* 
       
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2013 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.14 
      
    Employment Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and H. Lawrence Culp, Jr., dated as of July 18, 2000 and as subsequently amended* 
       
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Danaher Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2012  (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.15 
      
    Transition Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. dated April 16, 2014* 

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 16, 2014 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.16 
      
    Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests by and between Danaher Corporation and Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., dated March 16, 2009*    (1)  

10.17 
      
    Amendment to Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests by and between Danaher Corporation and Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., dated September 11, 2014* 

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2014 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.18 
      
    Form of Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests (without severance)*    (2)  

10.19 
      
    Description of compensation arrangements for non-management directors* 
       
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.16 to Danaher Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.20 
      
    Credit Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2011, among Danaher Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender, Citibank, N.A. as Syndication Agent, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Documentation Agents, Banc of America Securities LLC, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities, LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers and the lenders referred to therein 
       
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 19, 2011 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

108 

     Table of Contents  

109 

     Table of Contents  

110 

     Table of Contents  

   Danaher is a party to additional long-term debt instruments under which, in each case, the total amount of debt authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Danaher and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Danaher agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 

* 
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. 
        
    (1) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher has entered into agreements with each of Daniel L. Comas, William K. Daniel II and James A. Lico that are substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.16, except as to the name of the counterparty  . 
        
    (2) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher has entered into an agreement with Mark A. Beck that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.18  . 
        
    (3) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, FJ900, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher) has entered into a management agreement with Joust Capital II, LLC that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.26, except as to the referenced aircraft and the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (4) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher Corporation or a subsidiary thereof has entered into additional interchange agreements with each of Joust Capital II, LLC and Joust Capital III, LLC that are substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement attached as Exhibit 10.27, except as to the referenced aircraft and, in certain cases, the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (5) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher Corporation has entered into an aircraft time sharing agreement with Daniel L. Comas that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.28, except as to the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (6) 
    See Note 18,  Net Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations , to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        
    (7) 
    Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

111 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

DANAHER CORPORATION 

Date: 
    February 24, 2015 
    By: 
      
    /s/ THOMAS P. JOYCE, JR. 

Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated: 
    
                     Name, Title and Signature 
         
    Date 

/s/ STEVEN M. RALES 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Steven M. Rales 

Chairman of the Board 

/s/ MITCHELL P. RALES 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Mitchell P. Rales 

Chairman of the Executive Committee 

/s/ DONALD J. EHRLICH 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Donald J. Ehrlich 

Director 

/s/ LINDA HEFNER FILLER 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Linda Hefner Filler 

Director 

/s/ THOMAS P. JOYCE, JR. 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

/s/ TERI LIST-STOLL 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Teri List-Stoll 

Director 

/s/ WALTER G. LOHR, JR. 
      
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Walter G. Lohr, Jr. 

Director 

/s/ JOHN T. SCHWIETERS 
       
    February 24, 2015 
      
      John T. Schwieters 

Director 

/s/ ALAN G. SPOON 
       
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Alan G. Spoon 

Director 

/s/ ELIAS A. ZERHOUNI, M.D. 
       
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Elias A. Zerhouni, M.D. 

Director 

/s/ DANIEL L. COMAS 
       
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Daniel L. Comas 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

/s/ ROBERT S. LUTZ 
       
    February 24, 2015 
      
      Robert S. Lutz 

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 

112 

       Table of Contents  

   DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
  ($ in millions) 

Notes: 
            (a)   
    Amounts include allowance for doubtful accounts classified as current and non-current. 
               (b)   
    Amounts related to businesses acquired, net of amounts related to businesses disposed. 
       113 

<EX-10.16>
 2
 dhr-20141231xexx1016.htm
 COMPETITION & PROPRIETARY INTEREST AGREEMENT WITH CEO

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-10.16  

Exhibit 10.16 
    
  DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES 
  AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS  
  Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly, rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success.  Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates.  As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests.  Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success. 
    
  I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates  (collectively the  Company ), and will learn and have access to the Company s confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships.  I understand that the products and services that the Company develops, provides and markets are unique.  Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests. 
  I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company s customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information regarding, among other things, the Company s employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential and proprietary. 
  I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement.  I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free will without coercion from any source.  I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company. 
  I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement. 
  In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am expressly being given employment, continued employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits, training and/or trade secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms of this Agreement.  In consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows: 
  1.      Protection of Confidential Information  .     
  a.      Definition of  Confidential Information .     The term  Confidential Information  shall mean the trade secrets and other confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company or the Company s actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company s express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.   Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists,  

pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data (including but not limited to the revenues, costs, or profits, associated with any products or services), business and customer strategy, techniques, formulations, technical information, technical know-how, formulae, production information, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings, invention methods, systems, information regarding all or any portion of the Danaher Business System, lease structure, processes, designs, plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, personal or performance information about employees, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans, research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans or proposals related to the foregoing.   
  b.      Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse  .  At all times during and after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, I will not, without the Company s prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential.  The confidentiality obligations herein shall not prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity first to seek a protective order.   
  2.      Return of Property and Copying    I agree that all tangible materials (whether originals or duplicates), including but not limited to, notebooks, computers, files, reports, proposals, price lists, lists of actual or potential customers or suppliers, talent lists, formulae, prototypes, tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies, research results, test results, financial data, contracts, agreements, correspondence, documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession or control which in any way relate to the Company s business and which are furnished to me by or on behalf of the Company or which are prepared, compiled or acquired by me while working with or employed by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company.  I will at any time upon the request of the Company and in any event promptly upon termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, but in any event no later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials to the Company and will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard copy form or as computerized and/or electronic records.  Except to the extent approved by the Company or required by my bona fide job duties for the Company, I also agree that I will not copy or remove from the Company s place of business or the place of business of a customer of the Company, property or information belonging to the Company or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer.  In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company. 
  3.      Assignment of Developments    I hereby assign to the Company my entire right, title and interest in any idea, formula, invention, discovery, design, drawing, process, method, technique, device, improvement, computer program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data, work of authorship, trade secret, copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent applications (all hereinafter called  Developments ), which I may solely or jointly conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company, or which are suggested by or result from any task assigned to me or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company, whether or not such Developments are made, conceived, written or acquired during normal hours of work or using the Company s facilities, and whether or not such Developments are patentable, copyrightable or susceptible to other forms of protection.  The term  Developments  does not apply to any development for which no equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was used, and which was developed entirely on my own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or anticipated business of the Company; or (ii) to the Company s actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the Development results from any work performed by me for the Company.  I acknowledge and  
    2 

agree that any intellectual property right in any Developments and related documentation, and work of authorship, which are created within the scope of my relationship with the Company, are owned solely by the Company. 
  4.      Disclosure of Developments    I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company s policies and procedures in place from time to time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company s request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company s title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company s sole expense, to enable the Company to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company.  If the Company is unable, after reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company s rights and title to the Developments. 
  5.      Identification of Developments and Third Party Obligations  . 
  (a)  I have identified below all Developments in which I have any right, title or interest, and which were made, conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company.  I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3. 
  _______________________________________________________________________ 
  _______________________________________________________________________ 
  _______________________________________________________________________ 
  (b)  I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work.  I agree to be bound by all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements. 
  6.      Protection of Proprietary Interests  . 
  (a)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company  or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (b)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
    3 

(c)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company), manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any position I held with the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company or in which I would have responsibility for and access to confidential information similar or relevant to that which I had access to during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company in any geographic territory over which I had Company responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company.. 
  (d)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 24 months thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee or independent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of the Company during the 6 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, who possesses or had access to Confidential Information of the Company, to leave the employ of or terminate a relationship with the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such persons of their duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such persons for the purposes described in Paragraph 6(d)(i) and (ii). 
  (e)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, utilize or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer used by or served by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (f)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, interfere with or assist any third party in interfering with, the relationship of the Company with any vendor utilized by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (g)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, participate in the planning, research or development of any products or services, competitive with products or services of the Company, excluding general industry knowledge, for which I had product or service planning, research or development responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (h)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person, company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would work with or support products or services competitive with or similar to the products, services, or support offered by, performed by, developed by or created by me for the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (i)  I agree that nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.  Further, I understand and agree that during my employment or work relationship and the restricted time periods thereafter designated in this Agreement, while I may gather information to investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree that I shall not make plans or prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement.   
    4 

7.      Additional Payments (Applicable Only to Employees). 
    
  (a)      Termination Payments.    As additional consideration for my obligations in this Agreement, the Company agrees that if the Company terminates my employment with the Company "without cause" (as defined below), I shall be entitled to nine months base salary (excluding incentive compensation, bonus amounts, benefits and similar items) at the monthly rate in effect at the time of my termination to be paid on the same schedule as if I were still an employee (the "Termination Payments").  The Company will reduce the amount of any Termination Payments for withholding and FICA taxes and any other withholdings and contributions required by law.  If the Company terminates me for "cause," or if I terminate my employment for any reason, I shall not be entitled to any Termination Payments.  I agree that a transfer of my employment by the Company to a successor, assign or another affiliate, subsidiary or business unit of the Company shall in no event constitute a "termination" of any kind.    Paragraph 7(a) shall not apply to me if I have an independent contractor or consulting relationship with the Company. 
    
  (1)    For purposes of this Agreement, termination  without cause  shall mean that the Company terminates my employment for any reason, including a reduction-in-force, other than for  cause.   "Cause" shall include the following, to be determined in the reasonable judgment of the Company: 
    
  (i)    my dishonesty, fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement, willful misconduct or gross negligence with respect to the Company, or any other action in willful disregard of the interests of the Company; 
    
  (ii)    my conviction of, or pleading guilty or no contest to (1) a felony, (2) any misdemeanor (other than a traffic violation), or (3) any other crime or activity that would impair my ability to perform duties or impair the business reputation of the Company; 
    
  (iii)    my refusal or willful failure to satisfactorily perform any duties assigned to me; 
    
  (iv)    my failure or refusal to comply with Company standards, policies or procedures, including without limitation the Company s Standards of Conduct as amended from time to time; 
    
  (v)    material misrepresentation or a breach of any of my representations, obligations or agreements under this Agreement; 
    
  (vi)    my death; or 
    
  (vii)    my incapacity due to physical or mental illness that results in absence from work on a full-time basis for twelve consecutive months. 
    
  (b)      Severance Payment.    The Company agrees that if the Company terminates my employment  without cause  (as defined above), I shall be entitled to severance pay of three months of my base salary  (excluding incentive compensation, bonus amounts, benefits and similar items) at the monthly rate in effect on the date of my termination to be paid on the same schedule as if I were still employed by the Company (the "Severance Payments") provided I sign a release of all claims, including, but not limited to, those arising out of my employment and discontinuance of employment with the Company.  Such release must be executed at the time of termination, and will be in the format of the Company s standard release in effect at that time.  (A copy of the current version is available from Human Resources for my review.)  The Severance Payments will commence upon completion of the Termination Payments provided for in Paragraph 7(a).  The Company will reduce the amount of any Severance Payments for withholding and FICA taxes and any other withholdings and contributions required by law.  I agree that a transfer of my employment by the Company to a successor, assign or another affiliate, subsidiary or business unit of the Company shall in no event constitute a "termination" of any kind.  Paragraph 7(b) shall not apply to me if I have an independent contractor or consulting relationship with the Company. 
    
   (c)        Internal Revenue Code Section 409A Requirements  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to me under this Agreement.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Section 409A ), each  payment  (as defined by Section 409A) made under this Agreement shall be considered a  separate payment.   In addition, for  
    5 

purposes of Section 409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the definition of deferred compensation under Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (1) the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and (2) (with respect to amounts paid no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing my  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Section 409A)) the  two years/two-times  separation pay exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  If I am a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A (and as applied according to Company procedures) as of my separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Agreement constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Section 409A), and to the extent required by Section 409A, no payments due under this Agreement may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day following the six-month anniversary of my separation from service, or (ii) my date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following my separation from service.   If this Agreement fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A, the Company shall not have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on me by Section 409A, and I shall have no recourse against the Company for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Section 409A. 
    
  8.      Best Efforts  .  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, I will devote my best efforts to the performance of my duties and the advancement of the Company and shall not engage in any other employment, profitable activities, or other pursuits which would cause me to disclose or utilize the Company s Confidential Information, or reflect adversely on the Company.  This obligation shall include, but is not limited to, obtaining the Company s consent prior to performing tasks for customers of the Company outside of my customary duties for the Company, giving speeches or writing articles, blogs, or posts, about the business of the Company, improperly using the name of the Company or identifying my association or position with the Company in a manner that reflects unfavorably upon the Company.  I further agree that I will not use, incorporate, or otherwise create any business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business. 
  9.      Certification  .  I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use.  Furthermore, by executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully performing my duties for the Company.  I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, the Company may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers. 
  10.      Injunctive Relief and Attorney s Fees  .  In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will face irreparable injury which would be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequate remedy, I agree that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining such breach or threatened breach.   Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney s fees, litigation expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me.   
  11.      Amendment, Waiver, Severability and Merger  .  Except as set forth in Paragraph 13 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends (to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company.  No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was  
    6 

found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties.  I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law.  Further, I acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.  The terms of this Agreement shall not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me.  The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement. 
  12.      At-Will Employment Status  .  I acknowledge and agree that that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time.  I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require the Company to continue my employment, relationship or compensation for any particular length of time.  I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the Company and I each have the right to terminate the employment relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to otherwise in writing by the Company and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.   I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge, skills and abilities are sufficient to enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement.    
  13.      Acknowledgment of Obligations.    I acknowledge that my obligations under this Agreement are in addition to, and do not limit, any and all obligations concerning the same subject matter arising under any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets. 
  14.      Obligations Survive Termination.    I acknowledge and agree that the restrictions and covenants set forth in this Agreement shall be binding upon me and survive termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of the reason(s) for such termination.  I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is seeking to protect with this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not interfere with the interests of the public. 
  15.      Cooperation.    I agree to cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party claim in which the Company may have an interest subject to reasonable limitations concerning time and place, which may include without limitation making myself available to participate in any proceeding involving the Company, allowing myself to be interviewed by representatives of the Company, appearing for depositions and testimony without requiring a subpoena, and producing and/or providing any documents or names of other persons with relevant information; provided that, if such services are required after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and specific request of the Company. 
  16.      Non-Disparagement.    I agree that during and after my employment or relationship with the Company ends for any reason, I will not make any false, disparaging or derogatory statement(s) to any media outlet, industry group, financial institution, current or former employee, consultant, client or customer of the Company, or any other entity or person, which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors.  I further agree that I will not take any action that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in disrepute. 
  17.      Assignment and Transfer of Employment or Relationship.  .  The rights and/or obligations herein may only be assigned by the Company, may be done without my consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns.  If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this Agreement shall remain binding upon me.  Notwithstanding the language in this Paragraph 17, in connection with and as a condition of any  
    7 

assignment or transfer of my employment or relationship the Company, a successor, or assignee of the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and require me to sign a new Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests. 
  18.      Change of Position  .  I acknowledge and agree that any change in my position or title with the Company shall not cause this Agreement to terminate and shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement. 
  19.      Acceptance  .  I agree that this Agreement is accepted by me through my original or facsimile signature.  I further agree that the Company is deemed to have accepted this Agreement as evidenced by my employment or relationship with the Company, the payment of wages or monies to me, the provision of benefits to me, or by executing this Agreement. 
  20.      Binding Effect  .  This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns. 
  21.         Third Party Beneficiaries  .    This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and may be enforced by any such entity.  I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
                       Agreed to by: 
      
    Danaher Corporation 

/s/ Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 
      
    By: 
    s/ Henk van Duijnhoven 
      Associate Signature 

Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Associate s Printed Name 
      
    Print Name and Title 

Date: 
    3/10/09 
      
    Date: 
    16 March 2009 

8 

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.18>
 3
 dhr-20141231xexx1018.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION & PROPRIETARY INTERESTS

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-10.18 

Exhibit 10.18 
    
  DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES 
  AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS  
  Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly, rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success.  Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates.  As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests.  Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success. 
    
  I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates  (collectively the  Company ), and will learn and have access to the Company s confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships.  I understand that the products and services that the Company develops, provides and markets are unique.  Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests. 
  I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company s customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information regarding, among other things, the Company s employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential and proprietary. 
  I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement.  I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free will without coercion from any source.  I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company. 
  I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement. 
  In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am expressly being given employment, continued employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits, training and/or trade secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms of this Agreement.  In consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows: 
  1.      Protection of Confidential Information  .     
  a.      Definition of  Confidential Information .     The term  Confidential Information  shall mean the trade secrets and other confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company or the Company s actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company s express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.   Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists,  

pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data (including but not limited to the revenues, costs, or profits, associated with any products or services), business and customer strategy, techniques, formulations, technical information, technical know-how, formulae, production information, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings, invention methods, systems, information regarding all or any portion of the Danaher Business System, lease structure, processes, designs, plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, personal or performance information about employees, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans, research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans or proposals related to the foregoing.   
  b.      Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse  .  At all times during and after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, I will not, without the Company s prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential.  The confidentiality obligations herein shall not prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity first to seek a protective order.   
  2.      Return of Property and Copying    I agree that all tangible materials (whether originals or duplicates), including but not limited to, notebooks, computers, files, reports, proposals, price lists, lists of actual or potential customers or suppliers, talent lists, formulae, prototypes, tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies, research results, test results, financial data, contracts, agreements, correspondence, documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession or control which in any way relate to the Company s business and which are furnished to me by or on behalf of the Company or which are prepared, compiled or acquired by me while working with or employed by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company.  I will at any time upon the request of the Company and in any event promptly upon termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, but in any event no later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials to the Company and will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard copy form or as computerized and/or electronic records.  Except to the extent approved by the Company or required by my bona fide job duties for the Company, I also agree that I will not copy or remove from the Company s place of business or the place of business of a customer of the Company, property or information belonging to the Company or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer.  In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company. 
  3.      Assignment of Developments    I hereby assign to the Company my entire right, title and interest in any idea, formula, invention, discovery, design, drawing, process, method, technique, device, improvement, computer program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data, work of authorship, trade secret, copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent applications (all hereinafter called  Developments ), which I may solely or jointly conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company, or which are suggested by or result from any task assigned to me or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company, whether or not such Developments are made, conceived, written or acquired during normal hours of work or using the Company s facilities, and whether or not such Developments are patentable, copyrightable or susceptible to other forms of protection.  The term  Developments  does not apply to any development for which no equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was used, and which was developed entirely on my own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or anticipated business of the Company; or (ii) to the Company s actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the Development results from any work performed by me for the Company.  I acknowledge and  

agree that any intellectual property right in any Developments and related documentation, and work of authorship, which are created within the scope of my relationship with the Company, are owned solely by the Company. 
  4.      Disclosure of Developments    I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company s policies and procedures in place from time to time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company s request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company s title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company s sole expense, to enable the Company to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company.  If the Company is unable, after reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company s rights and title to the Developments. 
  5.      Identification of Developments and Third Party Obligations  . 
  (a)  I have identified below all Developments in which I have any right, title or interest, and which were made, conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company.  I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3. 
  _______________________________________________________________________ 
  _______________________________________________________________________ 
  _______________________________________________________________________ 
  (b)  I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work.  I agree to be bound by all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements. 
  6.      Protection of Proprietary Interests  . 
  (a)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company  or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (b)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 

(c)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company), manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any position I held with the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company or in which I would have responsibility for and access to confidential information similar or relevant to that which I had access to during the 24months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company in any geographic territory over which I had Company responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (d)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 24 months thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee or independent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of the Company during the 6 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, who possesses or had access to Confidential Information of the Company, to leave the employ of or terminate a relationship with the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such persons of their duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such persons for the purposes described in Paragraph 6(d)(i) and (ii). 
  (e)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, utilize or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer used by or served by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (f)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, interfere with or assist any third party in interfering with, the relationship of the Company with any vendor utilized by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (g)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, participate in the planning, research or development of any products or services, competitive with products or services of the Company, excluding general industry knowledge, for which I had product or service planning, research or development responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (h)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person, company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would work with or support products or services competitive with or similar to the products, services, or support offered by, performed by, developed by or created by me for the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (i)  I agree that nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.  Further, I understand and agree that during my employment or work relationship and the restricted time periods thereafter designated in this Agreement, while I may gather information to investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree that I shall not make plans or prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement.   
  7.      Best Efforts  .  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, I will devote my best efforts to the performance of my duties and the advancement of the Company and shall not engage in any other  

employment, profitable activities, or other pursuits which would cause me to disclose or utilize the Company s Confidential Information, or reflect adversely on the Company.  This obligation shall include, but is not limited to, obtaining the Company s consent prior to performing tasks for customers of the Company outside of my customary duties for the Company, giving speeches or writing articles, blogs, or posts, about the business of the Company, improperly using the name of the Company or identifying my association or position with the Company in a manner that reflects unfavorably upon the Company.  I further agree that I will not use, incorporate, or otherwise create any business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business. 
  8.      Certification  .  I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use.  Furthermore, by executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully performing my duties for the Company.  I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, the Company may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers. 
  9.      Injunctive Relief and Attorney s Fees  .  In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will face irreparable injury which would be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequate remedy, I agree that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining such breach or threatened breach.   Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney s fees, litigation expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me.   
  10.      Amendment, Waiver, Severability and Merger  .  Except as set forth in Paragraph 12 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends (to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company.  I agree that by executing this Agreement I am no longer entitled to any Severance Payments or Termination Payments I may have been entitled to under a prior competition, solicitation and/or proprietary interest agreement with the Company.  No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties.  I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law.  Further, I acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.  The terms of this Agreement shall not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me.  The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement. 
  11.      At-Will Employment Status  .  I acknowledge and agree that that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time.  I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require the Company to continue my employment, relationship or compensation for any particular length of time.  I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the Company and I each have the right to terminate the employment  

relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to otherwise in writing by the Company and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.   I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge, skills and abilities are sufficient to enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement.    
  12.      Acknowledgment of Obligations.    I acknowledge that my obligations under this Agreement are in addition to, and do not limit, any and all obligations concerning the same subject matter arising under any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets. 
  13.      Obligations Survive Termination.    I acknowledge and agree that the restrictions and covenants set forth in this Agreement shall be binding upon me and survive termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of the reason(s) for such termination.  I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is seeking to protect with this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not interfere with the interests of the public. 
  14.      Cooperation.    I agree to cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party claim in which the Company may have an interest subject to reasonable limitations concerning time and place, which may include without limitation making myself available to participate in any proceeding involving the Company, allowing myself to be interviewed by representatives of the Company, appearing for depositions and testimony without requiring a subpoena, and producing and/or providing any documents or names of other persons with relevant information; provided that, if such services are required after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and specific request of the Company. 
  15.      Non-Disparagement.    I agree that during and after my employment or relationship with the Company ends for any reason, I will not make any false, disparaging or derogatory statement(s) to any media outlet, industry group, financial institution, current or former employee, consultant, client or customer of the Company, or any other entity or person, which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors.  I further agree that I will not take any action that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in disrepute. 
  16.      Assignment and Transfer of Employment or Relationship.  .  The rights and/or obligations herein may only be assigned by the Company, may be done without my consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns.  If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this Agreement shall remain binding upon me.  Notwithstanding the language in this Paragraph 16, in connection with and as a condition of any assignment or transfer of my employment or relationship the Company, a successor, or assignee of the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and require me to sign a new Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests. 
  17.      Change of Position  .  I acknowledge and agree that any change in my position or title with the Company shall not cause this Agreement to terminate and shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement. 
  18.      Acceptance  .  I agree that this Agreement is accepted by me through my original or facsimile signature.  I further agree that the Company is deemed to have accepted this Agreement as evidenced by my employment or relationship with the Company, the payment of wages or monies to me, the provision of benefits to me, or by executing this Agreement. 

19.      Binding Effect  .  This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns. 
  20.         Third Party Beneficiaries  .    This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and may be enforced by any such entity.  I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
                       Agreed to by: 
      
    Danaher Corporation 

By: 
      
      Associate Signature 

Associate s Printed Name 
      
    Print Name and Title 

Date: 

Date: 

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.30>
 4
 dhr-20141231xexx1030.htm
 LETTER AGREEMENT

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-10.30 

Exhibit 10.30 
    
  March 5, 2014 
  (supersedes prior versions) 
    
  Mr. Mark A. Beck 
    
  Dear Mark:  
    
  I am delighted to extend you an offer of employment with Danaher Corporation (the  Company ) and am confident that your background and experience will allow you to make major contributions to the Company.   Your leadership will be critical in fully leveraging our talent and the Danaher Business System to achieve our aggressive growth targets.   
    
  We look forward to welcoming you to our dynamic team.  As we discussed, your position would be the Executive Officer position of Executive Vice President (with an initial focus on Water Quality), based in Washington, D.C., reporting directly to Larry Culp, President and Chief Executive Officer.   
    
  Please allow this letter to serve as documentation of the offer extended to you. 
    
  Start Date:    Your start date will be as soon as practicable, but no later than April 1, 2014.         
    
  Base Salary:    Your base salary will be paid at the annual rate of $600,000, subject to periodic review, and payable in accordance with the Company s usual payroll practices. 
    
  Incentive Compensation:   You are eligible for an annual cash incentive award.  The target bonus percentage, beginning in 2015, will be 110% of your annual base salary, subject to periodic review.     Provided your employment with the Company commences on or before April 1, 2014, your annual bonus award will be no less than $660,000 for calendar year 2014.  (More precisely, for 2014, you will be paid a guaranteed bonus of $660,000 in a lump sum (subject to applicable tax withholding) outside of the annual cash incentive plan within 60 days of the end of calendar year 2014 (provided that you remain actively employed at the Company through the date of payment), and the Company may grant a separate, contingent award to you under the annual cash incentive compensation plan for 2014. In all other respects, such annual cash incentive compensation award shall be subject to the Company s annual cash incentive compensation award program for Executive Officers, including applicable performance conditions.   
    
  Sign On Bonus:    The Company will provide you a cash signing bonus equal to $1,000,000 that is payable in three installments subject to your continued active employment up to each of the anniversary dates set forth herein. The first payment of $500,000 will be paid in first normal payroll cycle following your Start Date with the Company.  The second $250,000 installment will be paid in the first normal payroll cycle following the first anniversary of your Start Date.  The third $250,000 installment will be paid in the first normal payroll cycle following the second anniversary of your Start Date.   
    
  Benefits:    You will be eligible to participate in any associate benefit plan that the Company has adopted or may adopt, maintain, or contribute to for the benefit of its regular exempt employees generally, subject to satisfying any applicable eligibility requirements.  You will be eligible to participate in our comprehensive health and other insurance benefits immediately upon your first day of employment with the Company.  You will be eligible to participate in our 401(k) retirement plan beginning on your first day of employment subject to the applicable plan.  Information about our various benefit programs is enclosed.   
    
  Vacation:    You will be eligible for 20 days of annual vacation benefits pursuant to the Company s vacation policy.   
    
  Stock Options and RSUs:    A   recommendation will be made to the Compensation Committee of Danaher s Board of Directors to grant you a sign-on equity award ( Sign-On Award ) at its next regularly scheduled meeting after your Start Date at which equity awards are considered.   The target award value of this sign-on grant would be $3,100,000 which would be awarded entirely in RSUs and would vest 33.3% on each of the first three anniversaries RSUs of the grant date, assuming continued employment. 

In addition, a   recommendation will be made to the Compensation Committee of Danaher s Board of Directors to grant you an equity award as part of Danaher s annual equity compensation program at its next regularly scheduled meeting after your Start Date at which equity awards are considered.  The target award value of this grant would be $2,100,000 ( 2014 Annual Award ) which would be split evenly between stock options and RSUs and would vest 50% on each of the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date, assuming continued employment.  You will be eligible annually for an equity award under Danaher s equity compensation program.   
    
  The equity awards set forth above will be solely governed by the terms and conditions set forth in Danaher s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and in the particular form of award agreement required to be signed with respect to each award. 
             
    The target award value attributable to stock options will be converted into a specific number of options (rounded up to the nearest ten) based on an assumed value per option equal to 40% of Danaher s  average closing price .  Danaher s  average closing price  means the average closing price of Danaher s common stock over a 20-day trading period ending on the grant date.   
                
    The target award value attributable to RSUs will be converted into a specific number of RSUs (rounded up to the nearest five) using the same  average closing price.  
                
    RSUs will be subject to the Company s standard performance criteria, and will be deductible under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.   
       
  While historically Danaher s share price has increased over time, Danaher cannot guarantee that any RSUs or stock options granted to you will ultimately have any particular value or any value.   
    
  EDIP Program:    You will be included in a select group of executives who participate in the Executive Deferred Incentive Program (EDIP), an exclusive, non-qualified executive benefit designed to supplement retirement benefits that otherwise are limited by IRS regulations; and provide the opportunity for you to defer taxation on a portion of your current income (base salary or bonus or both).  Initially, the Company will contribute an amount equal to 6% of your total target cash compensation into your EDIP account annually (pro-rated for any initial partial year of eligibility as applicable).  Vesting requirements and your participation in the EDIP are subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in such plan.  Additional information on the EDIP will be provided to you by a member of the Corporate Benefits team before your EDIP eligibility date. 
    
  Severance Benefits  :  You will be eligible for severance pay and benefits pursuant to the Senior Leaders Severance Pay Plan for Danaher Corporation and its Affiliated Entities, As Restated and Amended January 1, 2013 ( Severance Plan ).  For purposes of Section III.B of the Severance Plan, the total amount of severance pay for which you are eligible will be equal to your annual base salary at the time of your employment termination multiplied by (1 + your target bonus percentage under the annual cash incentive compensation plan as of the time of termination). Except for the foregoing provision, all other aspects of your severance pay and benefits shall be governed solely by the terms and conditions of the Severance Plan. 
    
  Relocation:    The Company is pleased to provide relocation benefits through CapRelo, our third party relocation services company.  Our CapRelo representative will contact you to explain the services, assistance and benefits provided under the Corporate/Executive Officer Relocation Policy for Danaher Corporation and its Affiliates, coordinate your relocation coverage and answer any questions that you may have.   
    
  Reimbursement for Financial and Tax Assistance  :  The Company will reimburse you for financial planning and tax preparation services in an amount not to exceed $5,000 per year provided you provide appropriate and satisfactory documentation for such reimbursement and such expenses otherwise satisfy the Company s practices and policies.  
    
  At-Will Employment:      Nothing in this offer letter shall be construed as any agreement, express or implied, to employ you for any stated term.  Your employment with the Company will be on an at-will basis, which means that either you or the Company can terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason (or no reason), with or without notice.   

Conditions of Employment Offer:    This offer of employment is expressly conditioned upon successful completion of a background and reference check, a pre-employment/post offer drug screen, and your execution and return of the following documents no later than the date stated in the acknowledgment below: 
             
    Authorization and Notification Form(s) (for a consumer report and/or investigative consumer report to be obtained)  
                
    Summary of Your Rights Under the FCRA 
                
    Directors and Officers Questionnaire 
                
    Criminal History Questionnaire 
                
    Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests and the terms contained therein.  
                
    Certification of Danaher Corporation Standards of Conduct (The SOCs can be accessed at the following link:    http://www.danaher.com/integrity-and-compliance  )   
                
    Certification of Compliance of Obligations to Prior Employers 
       
  Thank you for considering our offer. We anticipate that you will make a very strong contribution to the success of the Company and believe this is an excellent professional opportunity for you.  We look forward to the opportunity to work with you as we pursue our very aggressive goals.   
    
  I realize that a career decision such as this has a major impact on you and your family.  If there is anything we can do, please do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 419 - 7743  .  
    
  Regards, 
    
  /s/ Angela S. Lalor 
    
  Angela S. Lalor 
  Senior Vice President  
  Corporate Human Resources 
    
  Acknowledgement 
    
  Please acknowledge that you have read, understood and accept this offer of at will employment by signing and returning it to me, along with the above-referenced signed documents no later than March 7, 2014. 

</EX-10.30>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 dhr-20141231xexx121.htm
 CALCULATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-12.1 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 6
 dhr-20141231xexx211.htm
 SUBSIDARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1 
      Danaher Corporation  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
      Name 
    Jurisdiction of Formation 
      AB Qualitrol AKM 
    Sweden 
      AB Sciex Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      AB Sciex KK 
    Japan 
      AB Sciex LLC 
    Delaware 
      AB Sciex LP 
    Canada 
      AB Sciex Pte Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Aegean Partner LLC 
    Delaware 
      Aguasin SpA 
    Chile 
      Alltec Angewandte Laserlicht Technologie GmbH 
    Germany 
      Alpha Biotec Ltd. 
    Israel 
      American Precision Industries Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Anderson Instrument Co., Inc. 
    New York 
      ANGI Energy Systems LLC 
    Delaware 
      Anhui Shifu Instruments Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Aquafine Corporation 
    California 
      Aquafine GmbH 
    Germany 
      Aran Communications Limited 
    Ireland 
      Arbor Networks, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Arbor Networks UK Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Argo Canada Holding ULC 
    Canada 
      Aribex, Inc. 
    Utah 
      Ball Screws and Actuators Co., Inc. 
    California 
      Beaverton LLC 
    Delaware 
      Beckman Coulter AB 
    Sweden 
      Beckman Coulter Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Beckman Coulter Biomedical GmbH 
    Germany 
      Beckman Coulter Biyomedikal Urunler Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited [irketi] 
    Turkey 
      Beckman Coulter Canada LP 
    Canada 
      Beckman Coulter Ceska republika s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Beckman Coulter Commercial Enterprise (China) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Beckman Coulter de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Beckman Coulter do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Beckman Coulter d.o.o. 
    Croatia 
      Beckman Coulter Espa a, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Beckman Coulter Eurocenter S.A. 
    Switzerland 
      Beckman Coulter France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Beckman Coulter Genomics Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Beckman Coulter G.m.b.H. 
    Germany 
      Beckman Coulter Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Beckman Coulter, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Beckman Coulter India Private Limited 
    India 
      Beckman Coulter International SA 
    Switzerland 
      Beckman Coulter Ireland Inc. [Ireland] 
    Ireland 
      Beckman Coulter K.K. 
    Japan 
      Beckman Coulter Korea Ltd. 
    Korea, Republic of 

Beckman Coulter Laboratory Systems (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Beckman Coulter Limited Liability Company 
    Russian Federation 
      Beckman Coulter Magyarorsz g Kft 
    Hungary 
      Beckman Coulter Mishima K.K. 
    Japan 
      Beckman Coulter Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Beckman Coulter Polska sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
      Beckman Coulter Puerto Rico Inc. 
    Illinois 
      Beckman Coulter Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Beckman Coulter Slovenska republika s.r.o. 
    Slovakia 
      Beckman Coulter South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Beckman Coulter Srl 
    Italy 
      Beckman Coulter Taiwan Inc. 
    California 
      Beckman Coulter United Kingdom Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      BioTector Analytical Systems Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Carnassial Corporation 
    Canada 
      ChemTreat, Inc. 
    Virginia 
      ChemTreat International, Inc. 
    Virginia 
      ClearSight Networks, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Comark Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Danaher China Holdings Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Danaher Evolution GmbH 
    Germany 
      Danaher Holding B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Danaher Medical ApS 
    Denmark 
      Danaher Setra-ICG (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Danaher UK Industries Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      DANRAD ApS 
    Denmark 
      DANRAD Holding ApS 
    Denmark 
      DATAPAQ Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Dental Complex 
    Russian Federation 
      Dental Equipment, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Dental Imaging Technologies Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Devicore Medical Products Inc. 
    Delaware 
      DH Alpha Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      DH Business Services LLC 
    Delaware 
      DH Cooperative, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      DH Denmark Holding ApS 
    Denmark 
      DH Holdings Corp. 
    Delaware 
      DHR Finland Oy 
    Finland 
      DHR Technologies Ireland Limited 
    Ireland 
      DH Technologies Development Pte Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      DOMS ApS 
    Denmark 
      Dr. Lange Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Dynapar Corporation 
    Illinois 
      Esko BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Esko-Graphics BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Esko-Graphics Inc. 
    Georgia 
      Esko Software BVBA 
    Belgium 
      EUROWATCH-Central Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      Fafnir Gmbh 
    Germany 

FJ 900, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Fluke Corporation 
    Washington 
      Fluke Deutschland GmbH 
    Germany 
      Fluke Electronics Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Fluke Europe B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Fluke Holding Austria GmbH 
    Austria 
      Fluke Holding Company AB 
    Sweden 
      Fluke International Corporation (DE) 
    Delaware 
      Fluke Italia S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Fluke Precision Measurement Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Fluke Sales B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Fluke Shanghai Corporation 
    China 
      Fluke Software Ireland Limited 
    Ireland 
      Fullerton LLC 
    Delaware 
      Gems Sensors Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Genetix Group Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Gilbarco Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Gilbarco China Co. Ltd 
    China 
      Gilbarco GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Gilbarco Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Gilbarco S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Gilbarco Veeder Root India Private Limited 
    India 
      Hach Company 
    Delaware 
      Hach Lange ApS 
    Denmark 
      Hach Lange France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Hach Lange GmbH 
    Germany 
      Hach Lange S rl 
    Switzerland 
      Hach Lange Sensors S.A.S. 
    France 
      Hach Lange S.L. 
    Spain 
      Hach Lange S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Hach Sales   Services Canada LP 
    Canada 
      HemoCue AB 
    Sweden 
      Hengstler GmbH 
    Germany 
      Hennessy Industries, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Hexis Cient fica S.A. 
    Brazil 
      Hybritech Incorporated 
    California 
      Immunotech Sro 
    Czech Republic 
      Immunotech SAS 
    France 
      Implant Direct Sybron Administration LLC 
    California 
      Implant Direct Sybron International LLC 
    Nevada 
      Implant Direct Sybron Manufacturing LLC 
    California 
      Infrared Integrated Systems Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Instrumentarium Dental GmbH 
    Germany 
      Invetech Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Iris International, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Iris Power LP 
    Canada 
      Jacobs (Suzhou) Vehicle Systems Co., Ltd 
    China 
      Jacobs Vehicle Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Janos Technology LLC 
    Delaware 

Joslyn Holding Company 
    Delaware 
      Kaltenbach   Voigt GmbH 
    Germany 
      KAVO Dental GmbH 
    Germany 
      KAVO Dental Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      Kavo Dental Systems Japan Co., Ltd 
    Japan 
      Kavo Dental Technologies, LLC 
    Illinois 
      KaVo do Brasil Ind stria e Com rcio Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Keithley Instruments, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Kerr Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Kerr GmbH 
    Germany 
      KerrHawe SA 
    Switzerland 
      Kerr Italia S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Kollmorgen Asia Investment Company 
    Delaware 
      Kollmorgen Corporation 
    New York 
      Kollmorgen Europe GmbH 
    Germany 
      Kollmorgen S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Kollmorgen s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Kollmorgen S r  AB 
    Sweden 
      Kreatech Holding BV 
    Netherlands 
      Launchchange Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leica Biosystems Melbourne Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Leica Biosystems Newcastle Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leica Biosystems Nussloch GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Biosystems Richmond, Inc. 
    Illinois 
      Leica Instruments (Singapore) Pte Limited 
    Singapore 
      Leica Microsystems B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Leica Microsystems Cambridge Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leica Microsystems CMS GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Microsystems Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Leica Microsystems IR GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Microsystems KK 
    Japan 
      Leica Microsystems Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Leica Microsystems Ltd. Shanghai 
    China 
      Leica Microsystems (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leica Mikrosysteme (Austria) GmbH 
    Austria 
      Leica Mikrosysteme Vertrieb GmbH 
    Germany 
      Life Sciences Holdings France SAS 
    France 
      Linx Printing Technologies Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Lumigen, Inc. 
    Michigan 
      Maxtek Components Corporation 
    Delaware 
      McCrometer, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Metrex Research, LLC 
    Wisconsin 
      Mixed Signals, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Molecular Devices, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Motion Engineering Incorporated 
    California 
      Navman Wireless Holdings LP 
    Delaware 
      Navman Wireless North America Ltd. 
    Delaware 
      Navman Wireless UK ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      NBH Holdco Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Negele Messtechnik GmbH 
    Germany 
      Neoptix Canada LP 
    Canada 
      NMTC, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Nobel Biocare AB 
    Sweden 
      Nobel Biocare Finance AG 
    Switzerland 
      Nobel Biocare Holding AG 
    Switzerland 
      Nobel Biocare Services AG 
    Switzerland 
      Nobel Biocare USA LLC* 
    Delaware 
      Normond info SAS 
    France 
      Ormco BV 
    Netherlands 
      Ormco Corporation 
    Delaware 
      OTT Hydromet GmbH 
    Germany 
      Pacific Scientific Energetic Materials Company (Arizona) LLC 
    Delaware 
      Pacific Scientific Energetic Materials Company (California) LLC 
    California 
      PacSci Motion Control, Inc. 
    Massachusetts 
      PaloDEx Group OY 
    Finland 
      Pantone LLC 
    Delaware 
      Pentron Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Picosecond Pulse Labs Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Portescap India Private Limited 
    India 
      Portescap Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Prozess und Maschinen Automation GmbH 
    Germany 
      Qualitrol Company LLC 
    Delaware 
      Qualitrol Finance Corp. 
    Delaware 
      Radiometer America Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Radiometer GmbH 
    Germany 
      Radiometer K.K. 
    Japan 
      Radiometer Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Radiometer Medical ApS 
    Denmark 
      Radiometer Medical Equipment (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Raytek GmbH 
    Germany 
      Salsnes Filter AS 
    Norway 
      Sea-Bird Electronics, Inc. 
    Washington 
      Sendx Medical, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Serveron Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Setra Systems, Inc. 
    Massachusetts 
      Shanghai Shilu Instrument Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Sonix, Inc. 
    Virginia 
      SpofaDental a.s. 
    Czech Republic 
      Suzhou Xitogen Biotechnology Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Sybron Canada Limited Partner Company 
    Canada 
      Sybron Canada LP 
    Canada 
      Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      SyntheSys Research, Inc. 
    California 
      Tektronix Berlin GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Tektronix (China) Co., Limited 
    China 
      Tektronix China Trading 
    China 
      Tektronix GmbH 
    Germany 
      Tektronix, Inc. 
    Oregon 

Tektronix International Sales GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Tektronix Texas, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Tektronix U.K. Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Teletrac Holdings Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Teletrac, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Thomson Industries Inc. 
    New York 
      Thomson Linear LLC 
    Delaware 
      Thomson Neff GmbH 
    Germany 
      Tianjin Danaher Motion Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Tollo Linear AB 
    Sweden 
      Trojan Technologies 
    Canada 
      Unifors Raysafe AB 
    Sweden 
      U.S. Peroxide, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Veeder-Root Company 
    Delaware 
      Veeder-Root Petroleum Equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Venture Measurement Company LLC 
    Delaware 
      Videojet Do Brasil Com rcio de Equipamentos Para Codifica  o Industrial Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Videojet Technologies B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Videojet Technologies Europe B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Videojet Technologies GmbH 
    Germany 
      Videojet Technologies Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Videojet Technologies (I) Pvt. Ltd 
    India 
      Videojet Technologies Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Videojet Technologies S.A.S. 
    France 
      Videojet Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Viqua 
    Canada 
      VSS Monitoring, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      X-Ray Optical Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      X-Rite Asia Pacific Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      X-Rite Europe GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      X-Rite GmbH  
    Germany 
      X-Rite Incorporated 
    Michigan 
      Young's L S Dental Supplies Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 
      Zhuhai S.E.Z. Videojet Electronics Ltd. 
    China 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 dhr-20141231xexx231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1  
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of Danaher Corporation of our reports dated February 24, 2015, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2014.  
  Registration Statement on Form S-3  

Registration Statements on Form S-8  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 dhr-20141231xexx311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION 
  I, Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., certify that: 
           1. 
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Danaher Corporation;  
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     Date: 
    February 24, 2015 
    By: 
    /s/ Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Name: 
    Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Title: 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 dhr-20141231xexx312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION 
  I, Daniel L. Comas, certify that: 
           1. 
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Danaher Corporation;  
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     Date: 
    February 24, 2015 
    By: 
    /s/ Daniel L. Comas 

Name: 
    Daniel L. Comas 

Title: 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 dhr-20141231xexx321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge, Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2014   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Danaher Corporation. 
    
                     Date: 
    February 24, 2015 
    By: 
    /s/ Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Name: 
    Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Title: 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 

This certification accompanies the Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Danaher Corporation specifically incorporates it by reference. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 dhr-20141231xexx322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

DHR-2014.12.31-EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Daniel L. Comas, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge, Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2014   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Danaher Corporation. 
    
                     Date: 
    February 24, 2015 
    By: 
    /s/ Daniel L. Comas 

Name: 
    Daniel L. Comas 

Title: 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

This certification accompanies the Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Danaher Corporation specifically incorporates it by reference. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 dhr-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 dhr-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 dhr-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 dhr-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 dhr-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 dhr-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

