<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170222_10-K_edgar_data_313616_0000313616-17-000066_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>19288555</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>813194</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>903992</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6688843</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7806995</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2664194</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>106</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000313616-17-000066.hdr.sgml : 20170222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170221181124
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000313616-17-000066
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		141
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DANAHER CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000313616
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY, AND CONTROL [3823]
		IRS NUMBER:				591995548
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08089
		FILM NUMBER:		17626405

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 PENNSYLVANIA AVE. N.W.
		STREET 2:		SUITE 800W
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20037-1701
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2028280850

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 PENNSYLVANIA AVE. N.W.
		STREET 2:		SUITE 800W
		CITY:			WASHINGTON
		STATE:			DC
		ZIP:			20037-1701

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DMG INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850221

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000313616-17-000066.txt : 20170222

10-K
 1
 dhr-20161231x10xk.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  ____________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

OR 
                 o 
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the transition period from         to     

Commission File Number: 1-8089 
   ____________________________________ 
  DANAHER CORPORATION 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 202-828-0850 
  Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  NONE 
  (Title of Class) 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
  Yes             No      

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
  Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).     Yes             No      
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K       . 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
                         Large accelerated filer 

Accelerated filer 
    o 

Non-accelerated filer 
    o 
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
      
    Smaller reporting company 
    o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) 
  Yes             No      
  As of   February 9, 2017  , the number of shares of Registrant s common stock outstanding was   693,280,277  .  The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on   July 1, 2016   was   $62.0 billion  , based upon the closing price of the Registrant s common stock as quoted on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on such date. 
  EXHIBIT INDEX APPEARS ON PAGE   110    
   ____________________________________ 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the Registrant s proxy statement for its   2017   annual meeting of shareholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant s fiscal year-end.  With the exception of the sections of the   2017   Proxy Statement specifically incorporated herein by reference, the   2017   Proxy Statement is not deemed to be filed as part of this Form 10-K. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE 

INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
    1 

PART I  

Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
        
    Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    12 
        
    Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    25 
        
    Item 2. 
     Properties  
    25 
        
    Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    25 
        
    Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    25 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    26 

PART II  

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    27 
        
    Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    28 
        
    Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    29 
        
    Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    54 
        
    Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    55 
        
    Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    107 
        
    Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    107 
        
    Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    107 

PART III  

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    107 
        
    Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    108 
        
    Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    108 
        
    Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    108 
        
    Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    108 

PART IV  

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    109 
        
    Item 16. 
     Form 10-K Summary  
    109 

INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  Certain statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, in other documents we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), in our press releases, webcasts, conference calls, materials delivered to shareholders and other communications, are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the United States federal securities laws.  All statements other than historical factual information are forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements regarding: projections of revenue, expenses, profit, profit margins, tax rates, tax provisions, cash flows, pension and benefit obligations and funding requirements, our liquidity position or other projected financial measures; management s plans and strategies for future operations, including statements relating to anticipated operating performance, cost reductions, restructuring activities, new product and service developments, competitive strengths or market position, acquisitions and the integration thereof, divestitures, spin-offs, split-offs or other distributions, strategic opportunities, securities offerings, stock repurchases, dividends and executive compensation; growth, declines and other trends in markets we sell into; new or modified laws, regulations and accounting pronouncements; regulatory approvals; outstanding claims, legal proceedings, tax audits and assessments and other contingent liabilities; foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; general economic and capital markets conditions; the timing of any of the foregoing; assumptions underlying any of the foregoing; and any other statements that address events or developments that Danaher intends or believes will or may occur in the future.  Terminology such as  believe,   anticipate,   should,   could,   intend,   will,   plan,   expect,   estimate,   project,   target,   may,   possible,   potential,   forecast  and  positioned  and similar references to future periods are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements are accompanied by such words.  Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.  These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties set forth under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  in this Annual Report. 
  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from the results, developments and business decisions contemplated by our forward-looking statements.  Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the report, document, press release, webcast, call, materials or other communication in which they are made.  Except to the extent required by applicable law, we do not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise. 
  In this Annual Report, the terms  Danaher  or the  Company  refer to Danaher Corporation, Danaher Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries or the consolidated subsidiaries of Danaher Corporation, as the context requires.  Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts in this Annual Report refer to continuing operations. 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
  General 
  Danaher Corporation designs, manufactures and markets professional, medical, industrial and commercial products and services, which are typically characterized by strong brand names, innovative technology and major market positions.  Danaher s research and development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, service and administrative facilities are located in more than   60   countries.  Danaher s business consists of   four   segments: Life Sciences; Diagnostics; Dental; and Environmental   Applied Solutions.  Danaher strives to create shareholder value primarily through three strategic priorities: 
             
    enhancing its portfolio in attractive science and technology markets through strategic capital allocation; 
                
    strengthening its competitive advantage through consistent application of the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM ( DBS ) tools; and 
                
    consistently attracting and retaining exceptional talent. 
     Danaher measures its progress against these strategic priorities over the long-term based primarily on the following financial metrics: 
             
    core revenue growth; 
                
    core operating margin expansion; 
     
   1 

free cash flow generation; and 
                
    return-on-invested capital. 
     The Company s businesses use a set of growth, lean and leadership tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM, which are designed to continuously improve business performance in the critical areas of quality, delivery, cost, growth and innovation.  Within the DBS framework, the Company pursues a number of ongoing strategic initiatives relating to idea generation, product development and commercialization, global sourcing of materials and services, manufacturing improvement and sales and marketing. 
  To further these objectives, the Company also acquires businesses that either strategically fit within its existing business portfolio or expand its portfolio into a new and attractive business area.  Given the rapid pace of technological development and the specialized expertise typical of Danaher s served markets, acquisitions also provide the Company access to important new technologies and domain expertise.  Danaher believes there are many acquisition opportunities available within its targeted markets.  The extent to which Danaher consummates and effectively integrates appropriate acquisitions will affect its overall growth and operating results.  Danaher also continually assesses the strategic fit of its existing businesses and may dispose of businesses that are deemed not to fit with its strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. 
  Danaher Corporation, originally DMG, Inc., was organized in 1969 as a Massachusetts real estate investment trust.  In 1978 it was reorganized as a Florida corporation under the name Diversified Mortgage Investors, Inc. which in a second reorganization in 1980 became a subsidiary of a newly created holding company named DMG, Inc.  DMG, Inc. adopted the name Danaher in 1984 and was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1986. 
  On July 2, 2016 (the  Distribution Date ), Danaher completed the separation (the  Separation ) of its former Test   Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business by distributing to Danaher stockholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Fortive   Corporation ( Fortive )  , the entity Danaher incorporated to hold such businesses.    To effect the Separation, Danaher distributed to its stockholders one share of Fortive common stock for every two shares of Danaher common stock outstanding as of June 15, 2016, the record date for the distribution.    
  Sales in   2016   by geographic destination (geographic destination refers to the geographic area where the final sale to the Company s customer is made) were: North America,   40%   (including   38%   in the United States); Europe,   28%  ; Asia/Australia,   24%   and all other regions,   8%  .  For additional information regarding sales by geography, refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  The spin-off of Fortive in the third quarter of 2016 changed the geographic mix of sales for Danaher, as the Fortive businesses realize a lower percentage of overall sales from outside North America than the Danaher businesses remaining after the Separation. 
  Reportable Segments 
  The table below describes the percentage of total annual revenues attributable to each of the   four   segments over each of the last three years ended   December 31, 2016  .  For additional information regarding sales, operating profit and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  Unless otherwise indicated, references to sales in this Annual Report refer to sales from continuing operations. 

LIFE SCIENCES 
  The Company s Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines.  The segment, through its Pall   Corporation ( Pall )   business, is also a leading provider of filtration, separation and purification technologies to the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical, aerospace, microelectronics and general industrial sectors.    Sales in   2016   for this segment by geographic destination were: North America,   35%  ; Europe,   31%  ; Asia/Australia,   28%   and all other regions,   6%  . 
  
   2 

Danaher established the life sciences business in 2005 through the acquisition of Leica Microsystems and has expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in 2010, Beckman Coulter in 2011, Pall Corporation in 2015 and Phenomenex in 2016.  The Life Sciences segment consists of the following businesses. 
  Microscopy   The microscopy business is a leading global provider of professional microscopes designed to manipulate, preserve and capture images of and enhance the user s visualization and analysis of microscopic structures.  The Company s microscopy products include: 
             
    laser scanning (confocal) microscopes; 
                
    compound microscopes and related equipment; 
                
    surgical and other stereo microscopes; and  
                
    specimen preparation products for electron microscopy. 
     Typical users of these products include research, medical and surgical professionals operating in research and pathology laboratories, academic settings and surgical theaters. 
  Mass Spectrometry   The business is a leading global provider of high-end mass spectrometers as well as related consumable chromatography columns and sample preparation extraction products.  Mass spectrometry is a technique for identifying, analyzing and quantifying elements, chemical compounds and biological molecules, individually or in complex mixtures.  The mass spectrometers utilize various combinations of quadrupole, time-of-flight and ion trap technologies, and are typically used in conjunction with a liquid chromatography instrument.  The business  mass spectrometer systems and related products are used in numerous applications such as drug discovery and clinical development of therapeutics as well as in basic research, clinical testing, food and beverage quality testing and environmental testing.  To support installations around the world, the business provides implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from the global services network.  Typical users of these mass spectrometry products include molecular biologists, bioanalytical chemists, toxicologists, and forensic scientists as well as quality assurance and quality control technicians.  The business also provides high-performance bioanalytical measurement systems, including microplate readers, automated cellular screening products and associated reagents, and imaging software.  Typical users of these products include biologists and chemists engaged in research and drug discovery, who use these products to determine electrical or chemical activity in cell samples. 
  The business also offers workflow instruments and consumables that help researchers analyze genomic, protein and cellular information.  Key product areas include sample preparation equipment such as centrifugation and capillary electrophoresis instrumentation and consumables; liquid handling automation instruments and associated consumables; flow cytometry instrumentation and associated antibodies and reagents; and particle characterization instrumentation.  Researchers use these products to study biological function in the pursuit of basic research, as well as therapeutic and diagnostic development and typical users include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions and in some cases industrial manufacturers. 
  Filtration   Danaher entered the filtration, separation and purification technologies segment in 2015 through the acquisition of Pall.  Pall is a leading provider of products used to remove solid, liquid and gaseous contaminants from a variety of liquids and gases, consisting primarily of filtration consumables and to a lesser extent systems that incorporate filtration consumables and associated hardware.  Pall s core materials and technologies can be applied in many ways to solve complex fluid separation challenges, and are sold across a wide array of applications in two primary business groups: 
             
    Life Sciences  .  Pall s life sciences technologies facilitate the process of drug discovery, development, regulatory validation and production and are sold to biopharmaceutical, food and beverage and medical customers.  In the biopharmaceutical area, the business sells a broad line of filtration and purification technologies, single use bioreactors and associated accessories, hardware and engineered systems primarily to pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies for use in the development and commercialization of chemically synthesized and biologically derived drugs, plasma and vaccines.  Biotechnology drugs, plasma and biologically derived vaccines in particular are filtration and purification intensive and represent a significant area of growth for Pall in the biopharmaceutical area.  The business also serves the filtration needs of the beer, wine, dairy, alcohol-free beverage, bottled water, and food ingredient markets, helping customers ensure the quality and safety of their products while lowering operating costs and minimizing waste.  In the medical area, hospitals use the Company s breathing circuit and intravenous filters and water filters to help control the spread of infections. 
     
   3 

Industrial  .  Virtually all of the raw materials, process fluids and waste streams that course through industry are candidates for multiple stages of filtration, separation and purification.  In addition, most of the machines used in complex production processes require filtration to protect sensitive parts from degradation due to contamination.  Pall s industrial technologies enhance the quality and efficiency of manufacturing processes and prolong equipment life in applications such as semiconductor equipment, airplanes, oil refineries, power generation turbines, petrochemical plants, municipal water plants and mobile mining equipment.  Within these end-markets, demand is driven by end-users and original equipment manufacturers ( OEM ) seeking to improve product performance, increase production and efficiency, reduce operating costs, extend the life of their equipment, conserve water and meet environmental regulations. 
     Customers served by the Life Sciences segment select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, the product s capacity to enhance productivity, innovation (particularly productivity and sensitivity improvements), product performance and ergonomics, access to a service and support network and the other factors described under   Competition.   The life sciences business generally markets its products under the BECKMAN COULTER, LEICA MICROSYSTEMS, MOLECULAR DEVICES, PALL, PHENOMENEX and SCIEX brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, Australia, Asia and North America.  The business sells to customers through direct sales personnel and independent distributors. 
  DIAGNOSTICS 
  The Company s Diagnostics segment offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians  offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions.    Sales in   2016   for this segment by geographic destination were: North America,   38%  ; Europe,   24%  ; Asia/Australia,   30%   and all other regions,   8%  .  
  Danaher established the diagnostics business in 2004 through the acquisition of Radiometer and expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Leica Microsystems in 2005, Vision Systems in 2006, Genetix in 2009, Beckman Coulter in 2011, Iris International and Aperio Technologies in 2012, HemoCue in 2013, Devicor Medical Products in 2014, the clinical microbiology business of Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics in 2015 and Cepheid in 2016.  The diagnostics business consists of the clinical laboratory (or clinical lab), molecular, critical care and anatomical pathology diagnostics businesses. 
  Clinical Lab Diagnostics   The clinical lab business is a leading manufacturer and marketer of biomedical testing instruments, systems and related consumables that are used to evaluate and analyze samples made up of body fluids, cells and other substances.  The information generated is used to diagnose disease, monitor and guide treatment and therapy, assist in managing chronic disease and assess patient status in hospital, outpatient and physicians  office settings.  The business offers the following products: 
             
    chemistry systems use electrochemical detection and chemical reactions with patient samples to detect and quantify substances of diagnostic interest in blood, urine and other body fluids.  Commonly performed tests include glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, electrolytes, proteins and enzymes, as well as tests to detect urinary tract infections and kidney and bladder disease. 
                
    immunoassay systems also detect and quantify biochemicals of diagnostic interest (such as proteins and hormones) in body fluids, particularly in circumstances where more specialized diagnosis is required.  Commonly performed immunoassay tests assess thyroid function, screen and monitor for cancer and cardiac risk and provide important information in fertility and reproductive testing. 
                
    hematology and flow cytometry products for cellular analysis.  The business  hematology systems use principles of physics, optics, electronics and chemistry to separate cells of diagnostic interest and then quantify and characterize them, allowing clinicians to study formed elements in blood (such as red and white blood cells and platelets).  The business  flow cytometry products rapidly sort, identify, categorize and characterize multiple types of cells in suspension, allowing clinicians to determine cell types and characteristics and analyze specific cell populations based on molecular differences which is critical to HIV and leukemia diagnosis and monitoring. 
                
    microbiology systems are used for the identification of bacteria and antibiotic susceptibility testing (ID/AST) from human clinical samples, to detect and quantify bacteria related to microbial infections in urine, blood, and other body fluids, and to detect infections such as urinary tract infections, pneumonia and wound infections.  The business  technology enables direct testing of clinical isolates to ensure reliable detection of resistance to antibiotics. 
     
   4 

automation systems that reduce manual operation and associated cost and errors from the pre-analytical through post-analytical stages including sample barcoding/information tracking, centrifugation, aliquotting, storage and conveyance.  These systems along with the analyzers described above are controlled through laboratory level software that enables laboratory managers to monitor samples, results and lab efficiency. 
     Typical users of the segment s clinical lab products include hospitals, physician s offices, veterinary laboratories, reference laboratories and pharmaceutical clinical trial laboratories. 
  Molecular Diagnostics   The molecular diagnostics business, which is primarily derived from Danaher s acquisition of Cepheid in 2016, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of biomedical testing instruments, systems and related consumables that enable DNA-based testing for organisms and genetic-based diseases in both clinical and non-clinical markets.  The business  products integrate and automate the complicated and time-intensive steps associated with DNA-based testing (including sample preparation and DNA amplification and detection) to allow the testing to be performed in both laboratory and non-laboratory environments with minimal training and infrastructure.  The business  systems commonly test for health care-associated infections (such as MRSA and C diff.), respiratory disease (such as tuberculosis and influenza), sexual health (such as gonorrhea and chlamydia) and virology (such as HIV and hepatitis).  Typical users of the business  products include reference laboratories, hospital central laboratories and satellite testing locations such as emergency departments and intensive care units within hospitals as well as physician offices. 
  Critical Care Diagnostics   The critical care diagnostics business is a leading worldwide provider of instruments, software and related consumables and services that are used in both laboratory and point-of-care environments to rapidly measure critical parameters, including blood gases, electrolytes, metabolites and cardiac markers, as well as for anemia and high-sensitivity glucose testing.  Typical users of these products include hospital central laboratories, intensive care units, hospital operating rooms, hospital emergency rooms, physician s office laboratories and blood banks. 
  Anatomical Pathology Diagnostics   The anatomical pathology diagnostics business is a leader in the anatomical pathology industry, offering a comprehensive suite of instrumentation and related consumables used across the entire workflow of a pathology laboratory.  The anatomical pathology diagnostics products include minimally invasive, vacuum-assisted breast biopsy collection instruments; tissue embedding, processing and slicing (microtomes) instruments and related reagents and consumables; chemical and immuno-staining instruments, reagents, antibodies and consumables; slide coverslipping and slide/cassette marking instruments; and imaging instrumentation including slide scanners, microscopes, cameras and software solutions to store, share and analyze pathology images digitally.  Typical users of these products include pathologists, lab managers and researchers. 
  Customers in the diagnostics industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, the scope of tests that can be performed, the accuracy and speed of the product, the product s ability to enhance productivity, ease of use, total cost of ownership and access to a highly qualified service and support network as well as the other factors described under   Competition.   The diagnostics business generally markets its products under the APERIO, BECKMAN COULTER, CEPHEID, HEMOCUE, IRIS, LEICA BIOSYSTEMS, MAMMATOME, RADIOMETER and SURGIPATH brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.  The business sells to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and, to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. 
  DENTAL 
  The Company s Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile.  The Company is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and is dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity.    Sales in   2016   for this segment by geographic destination were: North America,   51%  ; Europe,   29%  ; Asia/Australia,   15%   and all other regions,   5%  . 
  Danaher entered the dental business in 2004 through the acquisitions of KaVo and Gendex and has enhanced the geographic coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Sybron Dental Specialties in 2006, PaloDEx Group Oy in 2009 and Nobel Biocare Holding AG ( Nobel Biocare ) in 2014.  Today, the dental businesses develop, manufacture and market the following dental consumables and dental equipment: 
             
    implant systems, dental prosthetics and associated treatment planning software; 
                
    orthodontic bracket systems and lab products; 
                
    endodontic systems and related consumables; 
                
    restorative materials and instruments including rotary burrs, impression materials, bonding agents and cements; 
     
   5 

infection prevention products; 
                
    digital imaging systems and software and other visualization and magnification systems; 
                
    air and electric powered handpieces and associated consumables; and 
                
    treatment units. 
     Typical customers and users of these products include general dentists, dental specialists, dental hygienists, dental laboratories and other oral health professionals, as well as educational, medical and governmental entities.  Dental professionals choose dental products based on a number of factors including product performance, innovation, the product s capacity to enhance productivity and the other factors described under   Competition.   The dental products are marketed primarily under the DEXIS, iCAT, IMPLANT DIRECT, INSTRUMENTARIUM DENTAL, KAVO, KERR, NOBEL BIOCARE, ORMCO, PELTON   CRANE, PENTRON, SOREDEX, SYBRON ENDO and TOTAL CARE brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, North America, South America and Asia.  Sales are primarily made through independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, through direct sales personnel. 
  ENVIRONMENTAL   APPLIED SOLUTIONS 
  The Company s Environmental   Applied Solutions segment products and services help protect important resources and keep global food and water supplies safe.    Sales in   2016   for this segment by geographic destination were: North America,   42%  ; Europe,   28%  ; Asia/Australia,   16%   and all other regions,   14%  .  The Company s Environmental   Applied Solutions segment consists of the following lines of business. 
  Water Quality 
  The Company s water quality business provides instrumentation, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.    Danaher entered the water quality sector in the late 1990 s through the acquisitions of Dr. Lange and Hach Company, and has enhanced the geographic coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Trojan Technologies Inc. in 2004 and ChemTreat, Inc. in 2007.  The water quality business designs, manufactures and markets: 
             
    a wide range of analytical instruments, software and related consumables and services that detect and measure chemical, physical, and microbiological parameters in ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground, source and ocean water; 
                
    ultraviolet disinfection systems, which disinfect billions of gallons of municipal, industrial and consumer water every day in more than 35 countries; and 
                
    industrial water treatment solutions, including chemical treatment solutions intended to address corrosion, scaling and biological growth problems in boiler, cooling water and industrial wastewater applications as well as associated analytical services. 
     Typical users of these products and services include professionals in municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment plants and industrial process water and wastewater treatment facilities, third-party testing laboratories and environmental field operations.  Customers in these industries choose suppliers based on a number of factors including the customer s existing supplier relationships, application expertise, product performance and ease of use, the comprehensiveness of the supplier s product offering, after-sales service and support and the other factors described under   Competition.   The water quality business provides products under a variety of brands, including CHEMTREAT, HACH, MCCROMETER and TROJAN TECHNOLOGIES.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.  Sales are made through the business  direct sales personnel, e-commerce, independent representatives and independent distributors. 
  Product Identification 
  The Company s product identification business provides equipment, consumables, software and services for various printing, marking, coding, traceability, packaging, design and color management applications on consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products.    Danaher entered the product identification market through the acquisition of Videojet in 2002, and has expanded the product and geographic coverage through various subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Willett International Limited in 2003, Linx Printing Technologies PLC in 2005, EskoArtwork in 2011, X-Rite in 2012 and Laetus in 2015.  The product identification businesses design, manufacture, and market the following products and services: 
             
    the business provides a variety of equipment and solutions used to give products unique identities by printing date, lot and bar codes and other information on primary and secondary packaging.  The business  equipment can apply high- 
     
   6 

quality alphanumeric codes, logos and graphics to a wide range of surfaces at a variety of production line speeds, angles and locations on a product or package.  The business  track and trace and vision inspection solutions help pharmaceutical and consumer goods manufacturers safeguard the authenticity of their products through supply chains. 
             
    the business is a leading global provider of software for packaging, label and display artwork creation, structural design, and pre-press applications workflow automation, digital asset management, quality assurance and online collaboration.  The business also provides flexo computer-to-plate imagers and digital finishing systems for packaging, sign and display printers. 
                
    the business provides innovative color solutions through measurement systems, software, color standards and related services.  The business  expertise in inspiring, selecting, measuring, formulating, communicating and matching color helps users improves the quality and effectiveness of their products and reduces costs. 
     Typical users of the product identification business  products include food and beverage manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, retailers, packaging converters and printers, graphic design firms, and paints, plastics and textile manufacturers.  Customers in these industries choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including printer speed and accuracy, equipment uptime and reliable operation without interruption, ease of maintenance, service coverage and the other factors described under   Competition.   The product identification products are primarily marketed under the ESKO, FOBA, LAETUS, LINX, PANTONE, VIDEOJET and X-RITE brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia.  Sales are generally made through the business  direct sales personnel and independent distributors. 
  ************************************ 

The following discussion includes information common to all of Danaher s segments. 
  Materials 
  The Company s manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including metallic-based components, electronic components, chemicals, plastics and other petroleum-based products.  Prices of oil and gas also affect the Company s costs for freight and utilities.  The Company purchases raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world.  No single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications or regulatory or other qualifications there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components.  The Company utilizes a number of techniques to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to its supply chain, including in certain cases the use of safety stock, alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources.  During   2016   the Company had no raw material shortages that had a material effect on the business.  For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for the Company s operations, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Intellectual Property 
  The Company owns numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others.  Although in aggregate the Company s intellectual property is important to its operations, the Company does not consider any single patent (or related group of patents), trademark, copyright, trade secret or license to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole.  From time to time the Company engages in litigation to protect its intellectual property rights.  For a discussion of risks related to the Company s intellectual property, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   All capitalized brands and product names throughout this document are trademarks owned by, or licensed to, Danaher. 
  Competition 
  Although the Company s businesses generally operate in highly competitive markets, the Company s competitive position cannot be determined accurately in the aggregate or by segment since none of its competitors offer all of the same product and service lines or serve all of the same markets as the Company does.  Because of the range of the products and services the Company sells and the variety of markets it serves, the Company encounters a wide variety of competitors, including well-established regional competitors, competitors who are more specialized than it is in particular markets, as well as larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research, and financial capabilities.  The Company is facing increased competition in a number of its served markets as a result of the entry of new, large companies into certain markets, the entry of competitors based in low-cost manufacturing locations, and increasing consolidation in particular markets.  The number of competitors varies by product and service line.  Management believes that the Company has a market leadership position in many of the markets it serves.  Key competitive factors vary among the Company s businesses and product and service lines, but include the specific factors noted above with respect to each particular business and typically also include price, quality, delivery speed, service and support, innovation, distribution network, breadth of product, service and  
  
   7 

software offerings and brand name recognition.  For a discussion of risks related to competition, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Seasonal Nature of Business 
  General economic conditions impact the Company s business and financial results, and certain of its businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end-markets that they serve.  For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and medical and capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth quarter.  However, as a whole, the Company is not subject to material seasonality. 
  Working Capital 
  The Company maintains an adequate level of working capital to support its business needs.  There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items.  In addition, the Company s sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of its competitors. 

Backlog 
  The following sets forth the unfulfilled orders attributable to each of the   four   segments as of December 31 ($ in millions): 

The Company expects that a large majority of the unfilled orders as of   December 31, 2016   will be delivered to customers within three to four months of such date.  Given the relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover that are characteristic of most of the Company s products and the shortening of product life cycles, the Company believes that backlog is indicative of short-term revenue performance but not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. 

Employee Relations 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company employed approximately   62,000   persons, of whom approximately   21,000   were employed in the United States and approximately   41,000   were employed outside of the United States.  Of the United States employees, approximately   400   were hourly-rated, unionized employees.  Outside the United States, the Company has government-mandated collective bargaining arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where many of the Company s employees are represented by unions and/or works councils.  For a discussion of risks related to employee relations, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Research and Development 
  The following sets forth research and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, by segment and in the aggregate ($ in millions): 

The Company conducts research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products, enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of its existing products and expanding the applications for which uses of its products are appropriate.  The Company s research and development efforts include internal initiatives and those that use  
  
   8 

licensed or acquired technology.  The Company generally conducts research and development activities on a business-by-business basis, primarily in North America, Europe and Asia, although it does conduct certain research and development activities on a centralized basis.  The Company anticipates that it will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development as it seeks to provide a continuing flow of innovative products to maintain and improve its competitive position.  For a discussion of the risks related to the need to develop and commercialize new products and product enhancements, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   Customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in   2016  ,   2015   or   2014  . 
  Government Contracts 
  Although the substantial majority of the Company s revenue in   2016   was from customers other than governmental entities, each of Danaher s segments has agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities.  As a result, the Company is subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with governments.  For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   No material portion of Danaher s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of a government entity. 
  Regulatory Matters 
  The Company faces extensive government regulation both within and outside the United States relating to the development, manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of its products and services.  The following sections describe certain significant regulations that the Company is subject to.  These are not the only regulations that the Company s businesses must comply with.  For a description of the risks related to the regulations that the Company s businesses are subject to, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Environmental Laws and Regulations 
  For a discussion of the environmental laws and regulations that the Company s operations, products and services are subject to and other environmental contingencies, refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  For a discussion of risks related to compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and risks related to past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Medical Device and Other Health Care Regulations 
  Certain of the Company s products are classified as medical devices under the United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the  FDCA ).  The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ).  The Company s medical device products are also regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries where the Company s products are sold. 
  The FDA s regulatory requirements include: 
             
    Establishment Registration  .  The Company must register with the FDA each facility where regulated products are developed or manufactured.  The FDA periodically inspects these facilities. 
                
    Marketing Authorization  .  The Company must obtain FDA clearance or approval to begin marketing a regulated, 510(k)-non-exempted product in the United States.  For some of the Company s products, this clearance is obtained by submitting a 510(k) pre-market notification, which generally provides data on the design and performance of the product to allow the FDA to determine substantial equivalence to a product already in commercial distribution in the United States.  Other of the Company s products must go through a formal pre-market approval process which includes the review of non-clinical laboratory studies, clinical investigations, and information on the design and manufacture of the device as well as the successful completion of a pre-market approval inspection by the FDA. 
                
    Quality Systems  .  The Company is required to establish a quality system that includes clearly defined processes and procedures for ensuring regulated products are developed, manufactured and distributed in accordance with specified standards.  The Company also must establish procedures for investigating and responding to customer complaints regarding the performance of regulated products. 
                
    Labeling  .  The labeling for regulated products must contain specified information and in some cases, the FDA must review and approve the labeling and any quality assurance protocols specified in the labeling.  The FDA and other federal, state and non-U.S. regulatory bodies (including the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the U. S. Department of Justice, and various state Attorneys General) also monitor the manner in which the Company promotes and advertises its products.  Although physicians  
     
   9 

may use their medical judgment to employ medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, the FDA prohibits manufacturers from promoting products for such  off-label  uses. 
             
    Imports and Exports  .  The FDCA establishes requirements for importing products into and exporting products from the United States.  In general, any limitations on importing and exporting products apply only to products that have not received U.S. marketing clearance or approval. 
                
    Post-Market Reporting  .  After regulated products have been distributed to customers, the Company may receive product complaints requiring the Company to investigate and report to the FDA certain events involving the products.  The Company also must notify the FDA when the Company conducts recalls involving its products. 
     In the European Union, a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the applicable legal requirements is represented by the CE mark.  To obtain a CE mark, medical devices must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (known as the Essential Requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes.  An organization accredited by an EU Member State to certify whether a product meets the Essential Requirements, also known as a Notified Body, assesses the quality management systems of the device s manufacturer and the device s conformity to the essential and other requirements within the EU Medical Device or In Vitro Diagnostic Directives.  Our medical device companies are also subject to quality system audits by Notified Bodies for compliance and certification to the EU standards.  The national regulatory agencies of the EU countries (otherwise known as Competent Authorities), generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, also oversee the clinical research for medical devices, can conduct their own compliance audits and are responsible for post-market surveillance of products once they are placed on the EU market.  The Company is required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. 
  A number of other countries, including but not limited to Australia, Brazil, Canada, China and Japan, have also adopted or are in the process of adopting regulations and standards for medical devices sold in those countries. 
  In addition to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws, the Company is also subject to various health care related laws regulating fraud and abuse, pricing and sales and marketing practices and the privacy and security of health information, including the United States federal regulations described below.  Many states, foreign countries and supranational bodies have also adopted laws and regulations similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, the United States federal regulations discussed above and below. 
             
    The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. 
                
    The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) prohibits knowingly and willfully (1) executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors, or (2) falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services.  In addition, HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, also restricts the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, mandates the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of patient-identifiable health information and requires the Company to report certain security breaches with respect to such information. 
                
    The Stark Law prohibits health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider. 
                
    The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program.  The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. 
                
    The Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires manufacturers of medical devices covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure.  Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. 
     
   10 

In addition: 
             
    certain of the Company s products utilize radioactive material, and the Company is subject to federal, state, local and non-U.S. regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of these materials; and 
                
    some of the Company s in vitro diagnostic drugs-of-abuse assays and reagents contain small amounts of controlled substances, and as a result some of the Company s facilities are inspected periodically by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration to ensure that the Company properly handles, stores, and disposes of controlled substances in the manufacture of those products.  
     For a discussion of risks related to the Company s regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries, and the other regulatory regimes referenced above, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Export/Import Compliance 
  The Company is required to comply with various U.S. export/import control and economic sanctions laws, including: 
             
    the International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which, among other things, imposes license requirements on the export from the United States of defense articles and defense services (which are items specifically designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List); 
                
    the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which, among other things, impose licensing requirements on the export or re-export of certain dual-use goods, technology and software (which are items that potentially have both commercial and military applications); 
                
    the regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, which implement economic sanctions imposed against designated countries, governments and persons based on United States foreign policy and national security considerations; and 
                
    the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. 
     Other nations  governments have implemented similar export and import control regulations, which may affect the Company s operations or transactions subject to their jurisdictions.  For a discussion of risks related to export/import control and economic sanctions laws, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

International Operations 
  The Company s products and services are available worldwide, and its principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia.  The Company also has operations around the world, and this geographic diversity allows the Company to draw on the skills of a worldwide workforce, provides greater stability to its operations, allows the Company to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers the Company an opportunity to access new markets for products.  In addition, the Company believes that future growth depends in part on its ability to continue developing products and sales models that successfully target emerging markets (also referred to in this Annual Report as  high-growth markets ).  The Company defines high-growth markets as developing markets of the world experiencing rapid growth in gross domestic product and infrastructure which includes Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia (with the exception of Japan and Australia). 
  The table below describes annual revenue derived from customers outside the United States as a percentage of total annual revenue for the years ended December 31, by segment and in the aggregate, based on geographic destination: 

11 

The table below describes property, plant and equipment, net located outside the United States as of December 31, as a percentage of total property, plant and equipment, net, by segment and in the aggregate: 

For additional information related to revenues and long-lived assets by country, refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report and for information regarding deferred taxes by geography, refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 
  The manner in which the Company s products and services are sold outside the United States differs by business and by region.  Most of the Company s sales in non-U.S. markets are made by its subsidiaries located outside the United States, though the Company also sells directly from the United States into non-U.S. markets through various representatives and distributors and, in some cases, directly.  In countries with low sales volumes, the Company generally sells through representatives and distributors. 
  Financial information about the Company s international operations is contained in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report and information about the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on its business is set forth in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   For a discussion of risks related to the Company s non-U.S. operations and foreign currency exchange, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  Major Customers 
  No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in   2016  ,   2015   or   2014  . 
  Available Information 
  The Company maintains an internet website at www.danaher.com.  The Company makes available free of charge on the website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC.  Danaher s internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 

ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS 
  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.  Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, economic conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws, regulations or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected business conditions.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 
  
   12 

Conditions in the global economy, the markets we serve and the financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions.  Slower global economic growth, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt, volatility in the currency and credit markets, high levels of unemployment or underemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes or anticipation of potential changes in government fiscal, tax, trade and monetary policies, changes in capital requirements for financial institutions, government deficit reduction and budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, austerity measures and other challenges that affect the global economy adversely affect the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: 
             
    reducing demand for our products and services (in this Annual Report, references to products and services also includes software), limiting the financing available to our customers and suppliers, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; 
                
    increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; 
                
    increasing price competition in our served markets;  
                
    supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products;  
                
    increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and the risk that we may not be able to fully recover the value of other assets such as real estate and tax assets; and 
                
    increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us. 
     Although we have been able to access the commercial paper and other capital markets through the date of this report, there can be no assurances that such markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. 
  If growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve slows for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets or if improvements in the global economy do not benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements could be adversely affected. 
  Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. 
  Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution).  Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast.  Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our financial statements.  Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns.  In addition, in certain of our businesses demand depends on customers  capital spending budgets as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy and government budget dynamics as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities.  Demand for our products and services is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in incentive programs, new product introductions and customer inventory levels.  Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period. 
  We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share.  Even if we compete effectively, we may be required to reduce prices for our products and services. 
  Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; refer to  Item 1. Business Competition  for additional details.  In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories and penetrating new markets, including high-growth markets.  In addition, significant shifts in industry market share can occur in connection with product problems, safety alerts and publications about products, reflecting the competitive significance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems in our industry.  Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our financial statements, and our expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses. 
  
   13 

Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new and enhanced products and services based on technological innovation. 
  We generally sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards.  If we do not develop innovative new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, our offerings will become obsolete over time and our competitive position and financial statements will suffer.  Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: 
             
    correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; 
                
    allocate our research and development funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; 
                
    anticipate and respond to our competitors  development of new products and services and technological innovations; 
                
    differentiate our offerings from our competitors  offerings and avoid commoditization; 
                
    innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; 
                
    obtain adequate intellectual property rights with respect to key technologies before our competitors do; 
                
    successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; 
                
    obtain necessary regulatory approvals of appropriate scope, including with respect to medical device products by demonstrating satisfactory clinical results where applicable; and 
                
    stimulate customer demand for and convince customers to adopt new technologies. 
     In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability.  Even if we successfully innovate and develop new and enhanced products and services, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.  In addition, promising new offerings may fail to reach the market or realize only limited commercial success because of real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, uncertainty over third-party reimbursement or entrenched patterns of clinical practice. 
  Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. 
  We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy.  In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree.  Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.  In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable as a successor for violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.  We also rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier standards of conduct, and material violations of such standards of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the health care industry and the privacy and security of health information.  Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our reputation and financial statements. 
  Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA, by other federal and state governmental agencies, by comparable agencies of other countries and regions and by regulations governing radioactive or other hazardous materials and drugs-of abuse (or the manufacture and sale of products containing any such materials).  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain regulatory clearance (such as 510(k) clearance) or approvals for  
  
   14 

our new products or modifications to (or additional indications or uses of) existing products within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and if we do obtain such clearance or approval it may be time-consuming, costly and subject to restrictions.  Our ability to obtain such regulatory clearances or approvals will depend on many factors, for example our ability to obtain the necessary clinical trial results, and the process for obtaining such clearances or approvals could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained.  Even after initial regulatory clearance or approval, if safety issues arise we may be required to amend conditions for use of a product, such as providing additional warnings on the product s label or narrowing its approved intended use, which could reduce the product s market acceptance.  Failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals before marketing our products (or before implementing modifications to or promoting additional indications or uses of our products), other violations of these regulations, real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) and unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials can lead to FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, recalls, seizures of adulterated or misbranded products, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, narrowing of permitted uses for a product, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions.  We are also subject to various laws regulating fraud and abuse, pricing and sales and marketing practices in the health care industry and the privacy and security of health information, including the federal regulations described in  Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters.    
  Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the adverse effects referenced below under  Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and our business, including our reputation.   Compliance with regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. 
  The health care industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, which could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  The health care industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, including the following: 
             
    many of our customers, and the end-users to whom our customers supply products, rely on government funding of and reimbursement for health care products and services and research activities.  The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the  PPACA ), health care austerity measures in other countries and other potential health care reform changes and government austerity measures may reduce the amount of government funding or reimbursement available to customers or end-users of our products and services and/or the volume of medical procedures using our products and services.  Some countries also control the price of health care products, directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing or coverage limitations or through compulsory licensing.  Global economic uncertainty or deterioration can also adversely impact government funding and reimbursement. 
                
    the PPACA imposes on medical device manufacturers, such as Danaher, a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices. While the excise tax has been suspended until the end of 2017, it may be reinstated in 2018 or beyond. 
                
    governmental and private health care providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the delivery of health care services, forming group purchasing organizations to improve their purchasing leverage and using competitive bid processes to procure health care products and services. 
     These changes as well as other impacts from market demand, government regulations, third-party coverage and reimbursement policies and societal pressures have increased our tax liabilities and may cause participants in the health care industry and related industries that we serve to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our products and services from governmental agencies or third-party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our products and services and increase our compliance and other costs.  In addition, we may be unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, and even if we do enter into such contracts they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability.  All of the factors described above could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. 
  Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies.  We may not be able to  
  
   15 

consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price.  Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms.  In addition, competition for acquisitions may result in higher purchase prices.  Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. 
  Our acquisition of businesses (including our recent acquisitions of Pall and Cepheid), joint ventures and strategic relationships could negatively impact our financial statements. 
  As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses and enter into joint ventures and other strategic relationships in the ordinary course, and we also from time to time complete more material transactions; refer to  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) for additional details.  Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic relationships involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, compliance and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business and our financial statements: 
             
    any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable, or we could fail to make such business profitable. 
                
    we may incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic relationships, which could also cause a deterioration of Danaher s credit ratings, result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense and diminish our future access to the capital markets. 
                
    acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic relationships could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term. 
                
    pre-closing and post-closing earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period-to-period. 
                
    acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic relationships could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address. 
                
    we could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other controls and systems and retaining key employees and customers. 
                
    we may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition, joint venture or strategic relationship. 
                
    we may assume by acquisition, joint venture or strategic relationship unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company s activities.  The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations. 
                
    in connection with acquisitions and joint ventures, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results. 
                
    as a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet.  If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets. 
                
    we may have interests that diverge from those of our joint venture partners or other strategic partners and we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or other strategic relationship in the manner we believe is most appropriate, exposing us to additional risk.  
     The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities. 
  Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it.  In most of these agreements, however, the  
  
   16 

liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities.  We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Divestitures or other dispositions could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest, spin-off, split-off or otherwise dispose of businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment.  These transactions pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business and financial statements.  For example, when we decide to sell or otherwise dispose of a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell or dispose a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not become satisfied.  In addition, divestitures or other dispositions may dilute the Company s earnings per share, have other adverse financial and accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers.  In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold or disposed.  The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. 
  We could incur significant liability if the 2016 spin-off of Fortive or the 2015 split-off of our communications business is determined to be a taxable transaction. 
  We have received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that the separation and distribution of each of Fortive in 2016 and our communications business in 2015 qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code.  These opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings regarding the past and future conduct of the companies  respective businesses and other matters.  If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the respective opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.  Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) could determine on audit that either or both separations are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the respective opinion.  If either transaction is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. 
  Potential indemnification liabilities pursuant to the 2016 spin-off of Fortive and the 2015 split-off of our communications business could materially and adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Fortive to govern the Separation and the relationship between the two companies going forward.  We entered into similar agreements with NetScout Systems, Inc. in connection with the split-off of our communications business.  These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations of each party and could lead to disputes between us.  If we are required to indemnify the other parties under the circumstances set forth in these agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.  In addition, with respect to the liabilities for which the other parties have agreed to indemnify us under these agreements, there can be no assurance that the indemnity rights we have against such other parties will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of the liabilities, or that such other parties will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  It is also possible that a court could disregard the allocation of assets and liabilities agreed to between Danaher and such other parties and require Danaher to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to such other parties.  Each of these risks could negatively affect our business and financial statements. 
  A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or violation of data privacy laws could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers, other business partners and patients), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities.  In addition, some of our remote monitoring products and services incorporate software and information technology that may house personal data.  These systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate.  In addition, security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure  
  
   17 

of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers.  Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase.  Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could interrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers  intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  If we are unable to maintain reliable information technology systems   and appropriate controls with respect to global data privacy and security requirements   and prevent data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences.    As a global organization, we are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls in numerous   jurisdictions   as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business.  For example, in the   United States  , HIPAA privacy and security rules require certain of our operations to maintain controls to protect the availability and confidentiality of patient health information, individual states regulate data breach and security requirements and multiple governmental bodies assert authority over aspects of the protection of personal privacy.    European laws require us to have an approved legal mechanism to transfer personal data out of Europe, and the new EU General Data Protection Regulation will impose significantly stricter requirements in how we collect and process personal data.  Several countries, such as China and Russia, have passed laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions.  Government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and data breaches or violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and impose end-of-life disposal and take-back programs.  We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations.  We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program has been or will at all times be effective.  Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation.  In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements. 
  In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  We are also from time to time party to personal injury, property damage or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury or damage due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.  We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules.  For additional information regarding these risks, refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our reputation and financial statements or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or remediation in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.  However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of our reserves as of December 31,   2016   will have a material effect on our financial statements. 
  Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and our business, including our reputation. 
  In addition to the environmental, health, safety, health care, medical device, anticorruption, data privacy and other regulations noted elsewhere in this Annual Report, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional levels, including the following: 
             
    we are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and between our subsidiaries.  In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations  
     
   18 

may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies.  In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.  Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. 
             
    we also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with government entities.  The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts.  For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts.  Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract.  In certain cases, a governmental entity may require us to pay back amounts it has paid to us.  Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract.  We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts.   
     These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with.  The regulations we are subject to have tended to become more stringent over time and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  We, our representatives and the industries in which we operate may at times be under review and/or investigation by regulatory authorities.  Failure to comply (or any alleged or perceived failure to comply) with the regulations referenced above or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and any such failure or alleged failure (or becoming subject to a regulatory enforcement investigation) could also damage our reputation, disrupt our business, limit our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, result in loss of customers and disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies and cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.  Compliance with these and other regulations may also affect our returns on investment, require us to incur significant expenses or modify our business model or impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our business.  Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our business and financial statements.  For additional information regarding these risks, refer to  Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters.  
  Our restructuring actions could have long-term adverse effects on our business. 
  In recent years, we have implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure, and we may engage in similar restructuring activities in the future.  These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) reduce our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and services, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly if demand for our products increases.  In addition, delays in implementing planned restructuring activities or other productivity improvements, unexpected costs or failure to meet targeted improvements may diminish the operational or financial benefits we expect to realize from such actions.  Any of the circumstances described above could adversely impact our business and financial statements. 
  We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately   $35.6 billion  .  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines, or increases in associated discount rates may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets.  Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. 
  Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements.  Increased strength of the U.S. dollar increases the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices.  Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services we purchase overseas.  Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects.  In addition, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than the business  functional currency,  
  
   19 

and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects.  The Company also faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. 
  Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities or assessments could affect our profitability.  In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. 
  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Refer to the MD A for a discussion of the factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and decrease our profitability in any period.  The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period-to-period.  In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities, such as the audits described in the MD A and the Company s financial statements.  Due to the potential for changes to tax laws (or changes to the interpretation thereof) and the ambiguity of tax laws, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our intercompany arrangements and other factors, our estimates of income tax assets or liabilities may differ from actual payments, assessments or receipts.  If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities and our financial statements could be adversely affected.  If we determine to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that have been considered permanently re-invested under existing accounting standards, it could also increase our effective tax rate.  In addition, any significant change to the tax system in the United States or in other jurisdictions (including changes in the taxation of international income as further described below) could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations could adversely affect our tax position. 
  Recent legislative proposals seek to limit the ability of foreign-owned corporations to deduct interest expense, tax the accumulated unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. corporations, impose a minimum tax on the future offshore earnings of U.S. multinational groups and make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations.  Additionally, the U.S. Congress, government agencies in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.  One example is in the area of  base erosion and profit shifting,  where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates.  The OECD has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for addressing base erosion and profit shifting.  As a result, the tax laws in the United States and other countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture-related matters, as well as regulatory investigations or enforcement.  We may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses.  The types of claims made in lawsuits include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and/or injunctive relief.  The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our operations and financial statements.  Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses.  In addition, developments in proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, record estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments.  Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial statements in any particular period.  We cannot assure you that our liabilities in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and business.  However, based on our experience, current information and applicable law, we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of our reserves as of December 31,   2016   will have a material effect on our financial statements. 
  If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third-parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. 
  We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business.  The intellectual property rights that we obtain,  
  
   20 

however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us.  In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented, designed-around or becoming subject to compulsory licensing, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected.  In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons, or countries may require compulsory licensing of our intellectual property.  We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third-parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights.  Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business, including our competitive position, and financial statements. 
  Third-parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. 
  From time to time, we receive notices from third-parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation.  Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation.  Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation.  In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our business, including our competitive position, and financial statements.  Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  The United States government has certain rights to use and disclose some of the intellectual property that we license and could exclusively license it to a third-party if we fail to achieve practical application of the intellectual property. 
  Certain technology licensed by us under agreements with third-party licensors may be subject to government rights. Government rights in inventions conceived or reduced to practice under a government-funded program may include a non-exclusive, royalty-free worldwide license to practice or have practiced such inventions for any governmental purpose.  In addition, the United States government has the right to require us or our licensors (as applicable) to grant licenses which would be exclusive under any of such inventions to a third-party if they determine that: (1) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize such inventions in a particular field of use; (2) such action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (3) such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations.  Further, the government rights include the right to use and disclose, without limitation, technical data relating to licensed technology that was developed in whole or in part at government expense. 
  Defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products or services (including software) could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 
  Manufacturing or design defects or  bugs  in, unanticipated use of, safety or quality issues (or the perception of such issues) with respect to,  off label  use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products and services that we make or sell (including items that we source from third-parties) can lead to personal injury, death, property damage or other liability.  These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts, result in the removal of a product or service from the market and result in product liability or similar claims being brought against us.  Recalls, removals and product liability and similar claims (regardless of their validity or ultimate outcome) can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services.  Our business can also be affected by studies of the utilization, safety and efficacy of medical device products and components that are conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others.  Any of the above can result in the discontinuation of marketing of such products in one or more countries, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of product issues. 
  
   21 

The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if we directly or indirectly encounter problems manufacturing products, our reputation, business and financial statements could suffer. 
  The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.  Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters and environmental factors, and if not discovered before the product is released to market could result in recalls and product liability exposure.  Because of the time required to approve and license certain regulated manufacturing facilities and other stringent regulations of the FDA regarding the manufacture of certain of our products, an alternative manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace such production capacity.  Any of these manufacturing problems could result in significant costs, liability and lost revenue, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. 
  Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial statements. 
  As of December 31,   2016  , we had approximately   $12.3 billion   in outstanding indebtedness.  In addition, as of December 31,   2016   we   had the ability to incur approximately an additional   $1.1 billion   of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under the Com  pany s   $7.0 billion   of credit facilities which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances  .  Our debt level and related debt service obligations can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.  We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly to finance acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that our cost of funding will not substantially increase. 
  Our current revolving credit facilities and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us; for more information refer to the MD A.  If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial statements.  In addition, any failure to maintain the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies would adversely affect our cost of funds and could adversely affect our liquidity and access to the capital markets.  If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. 
  Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance, purchasing patterns or inventory levels of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users.  Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors  products or compete with us directly, and if they favor competing products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively.  Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our business and financial statements.      The levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners, and changes in those levels, can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period.  In addition, the consolidation of distributors and customers in certain of our served industries could adversely impact our business and financial statements. 
  Certain of our businesses rely on relationships with collaborative partners and other third-parties for development, supply and marketing of certain products and potential products, and such collaborative partners or other third-parties could fail to perform sufficiently. 
  We believe that for certain of our businesses, success in penetrating target markets depends in part on their ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies.  Relying on collaborative relationships is risky because, among other things, our collaborative partners (1) may not devote sufficient resources to the success of our collaborations; (2) may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; (3) may be acquired by other companies and decide to terminate our collaborative partnership or become insolvent; (4) may compete with us; (5) may not agree with us on key details of the collaborative relationship; (6) may not have sufficient capital resources; and (7) may not agree to renew existing collaborations on acceptable terms.  Because these and other factors may be beyond our control, the development or commercialization of our products involved in collaborative partnerships may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected.  If we or any of our collaborative partners terminate a collaborative arrangement, we may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or we may need to cancel some development programs, which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 
  
   22 

Our financial results are subject to fluctuations in the cost and availability of commodities that we use in our operations. 
  As discussed in  Item 1. Business Materials,  our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of components, raw materials and other commodities.  Prices for and availability of these components, raw materials and other commodities have fluctuated significantly in the past.  Any sustained interruption in the supply of these items could adversely affect our business.  In addition, due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity prices rise we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices.  If we are unable to fully recover higher commodity costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our financial statements could be adversely affected. 
  If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity or the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changes in market conditions and customer demand, our profitability may suffer.  In addition, our reliance upon sole or limited sources of supply for certain materials, components and services could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. 
  We purchase materials, components and equipment from third-parties for use in our manufacturing operations.  Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality.  During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices.  If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed, our costs may increase or we may breach our contractual commitments and incur liabilities.  Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into noncancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands.  If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer. 
  In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, regulatory requirements, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design.  If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply.  The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, bankruptcy or exiting of the business for other reasons, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities and external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, war, terrorist actions, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes.  Any of these factors could result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies. 
  Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements.  Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial statements. 
  Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or services or increase our expenses. 
  We compete in markets in which we and our customers must comply with supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs, privacy and electronic communications.  We develop, configure and market our products and services to meet customer needs created by these regulations.  These regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  Any significant change in any of these regulations (or in the interpretation or application thereof) could reduce demand for, increase our costs of producing or delay the introduction of new or modified products and services, or could restrict our existing activities, products and services.  In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations.  In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address or the repeal of existing regulations, could adversely affect demand.  In addition, regulatory deadlines may result in substantially different levels of demand for our products and services from period-to-period. 
  Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. 
  We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements.  We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our financial statements and business, including our productivity and reputation. 
  
   23 

International economic, political, legal, compliance and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements. 
  In   2016  , approximately   62%   of our sales were derived from customers outside the United States.  In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the United States.  Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the United States and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the United States, particularly in the high-growth markets.  Our international business (and particularly our business in high-growth markets) is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including: 
             
    interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers;  
                
    differences in terms of sale, including payment terms; 
                
    local product preferences and product requirements; 
                
    changes in a country s or region s political or economic conditions, such as the devaluation of particular currencies; 
                
    trade protection measures, embargoes and import or export restrictions and requirements; 
                
    unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws; 
                
    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; 
                
    the potential for nationalization of enterprises; 
                
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; 
                
    limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights; 
                
    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; 
                
    differing labor regulations; 
                
    difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and 
                
    differing protection of intellectual property. 
     Any of these risks could negatively affect our financial statements and business, including our growth rate. 
  The results of the EU membership referendum in the United Kingdom could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our business and financial statements. 
  The results of the United Kingdom s referendum on EU membership,     advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty.  Although it is unknown what the terms of the United Kingdom s future relationship with the EU will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and EU and increased regulatory complexities.  Any of these factors could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our business and financial statements. 
  If we suffer loss to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed. 
  Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, public health crisis, war, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters.  If any of these facilities, supply chains or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses.  The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to protect us against such losses. 
  Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our financial statements. 
  The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations.  Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan  
  
   24 

assets and changes in discount rates may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements.  In addition, upward pressure on the cost of providing health care coverage to current employees and retirees may increase our future funding obligations and adversely affect our financial statements. 

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  Not applicable. 

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES 
  Danaher s corporate headquarters are located in Washington, D.C. in a facility that the Company leases.  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company had facilities in over   60   countries, including approximately   242   significant manufacturing and distribution facilities.  112 of these facilities are located in the United States in over 25 states and 130 are located outside the United States in over 34 other countries, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, the rest of North America, South America and Australia.  These facilities cover approximately 21 million square feet, of which approximately 11 million square feet are owned and approximately 10 million square feet are leased.  Particularly outside the United States, facilities often serve more than one business segment and may be used for multiple purposes, such as administration, sales, manufacturing, warehousing and/or distribution.  The number of significant facilities by business segment is: 
                
    Environmental   Applied Solutions,   47  . 
     The Company considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and does not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities.  The Company believes its properties and equipment have been well-maintained.  Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to the Company s lease commitments. 

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  Not applicable. 

ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 

25 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of Danaher s executive officers as of   February 9, 2017  .  All of Danaher s executive officers hold office at the pleasure of Danaher s Board of Directors.  Unless otherwise stated, the positions indicated are Danaher positions. 

Steven M. Rales is a co-founder of Danaher and has served on Danaher s Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Danaher s Chairman of the Board since 1984.  He was also CEO of the Company from 1984 to 1990.  Mr. Rales is also a member of the board of directors of Fortive Corporation, and is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales. 
  Mitchell P. Rales is a co-founder of Danaher and has served on Danaher s Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Chairman of the Executive Committee of Danaher since 1984.  He was also President of the Company from 1984 to 1990.  Mr. Rales is also a member of the board of directors of Colfax Corporation and of Fortive Corporation, and is a brother of Steven M. Rales. 
  Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. has served on Danaher s Board of Directors and as Danaher s President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2014 after serving as   Executive Vice President - CEO Designate from April 2014 to September 2014 and as   Executive Vice President from 2006 to April 2014. 
  Daniel L. Comas has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005. 
  Rainer M. Blair has served as Executive Vice President since 2017 after serving as Vice President - Group Executive from March 2014 until January 2017 and as President of Danaher s Sciex business from January 2011 to March 2014. 
  William K. Daniel II has served as Executive Vice President since 2008. 
  Brian W. Ellis has served as Senior Vice President   General Counsel since joining Danaher in January 2016.  Prior to joining Danaher, Mr. Ellis served for over five years in progressively more responsible positions in the legal department of Medtronic, Inc., a medical device company, including most recently as Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic s Restorative Therapies Group. 
  William H. King has served as Senior Vice President   Strategic Development since May 2014 after serving as Vice President   Strategic Development from 2005 to May 2014. 
  Angela S. Lalor has served as Senior Vice President   Human Resources since joining Danaher in April 2012.  Prior to joining Danaher, Ms. Lalor served for 22 years in a series of progressively more responsible positions in the human resources department of 3M Company, a global manufacturing company, including most recently as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. 
  Robert S. Lutz has served as Senior Vice President   Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. 
  Daniel A. Raskas has served as Senior Vice President   Corporate Development since February 2010. 

26 

Table of Contents  

PART II 

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DHR.  As of   February 9, 2017  , there were approximately 2,700 holders of record of Danaher s common stock.  The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends declared per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows: 

(a)   
    The Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in the first quarter of 2016 to $0.16 per share. 
               (b)   
    Subsequent to the Separation of Fortive, the Company reduced its quarterly dividend rate to $0.125 per share. 
               (c)   
    The Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in the first quarter of 2015 to $0.135 per share. 
               (d)   
    The stock prices in the above table on or prior to July 2, 2016, the date of the Fortive Separation, have not been adjusted for the Separation. 
     Our payment of dividends in the future will be determined by Danaher s Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, Danaher s earnings and other factors Danaher s Board deems relevant.  For a description of the distribution of the issued and outstanding common stock of Fortive pursuant to the Separation, refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  On July 16, 2013, the Company s Board of Directors approved a repurchase program (the  Repurchase Program ) authorizing the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Company s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  There is no expiration date for the Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.  The Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company s equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes.  As of   December 31, 2016  , 20 million shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the Repurchase Program.  The Company expects to fund any future stock repurchases using the Company s available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of debt. 
  Except in connection with the disposition of the Company s communications business to NetScout Systems, Inc. ( NetScout ) in 2015, neither the Company nor any  affiliated purchaser  repurchased any shares of Company common stock during   2016  ,   2015   or   2014  .  Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for discussion of the   26 million   shares of Danaher common stock tendered to and repurchased by the Company in connection with the disposition of the Company s communications business to NetScout. 
  Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities 
  During the fourth quarter of   2016  , holders of certain of the Company s Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 ( LYONs ) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of 21 thousand shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  In each case, the shares of common stock were issued solely to existing security holders upon conversion of the LYONs pursuant to the exemption from registration provided under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

27 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  ($ in millions, except per share information) 

(a)   
    Includes $223 million ($140 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share) gain on sale of certain marketable equity securities.  Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. 
               (b)   
    Includes $179 million ($112 million after-tax or $0.16 per diluted share) loss on extinguishment of borrowings, net of certain deferred gains.  Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. 
               (c)   
    Includes $767 million after-tax gain ($1.08 per diluted share) on disposition of the Company s communications business.  Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. 
               (d)   
    Includes $12 million ($8 million after-tax or $0.01 per diluted share) gain on sale of certain marketable equity securities.  Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. 
               (e)   
    Includes $34 million ($26 million after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s electric vehicle systems ( EVS )/hybrid product line.  
               (f)   
    Includes $123 million ($77 million after-tax or $0.11 per diluted share) gain on sale of certain marketable equity securities.  Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. 
               (g)   
    Includes $230 million ($144 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s investment in the Apex Tool Group, LLC ( Apex ) joint venture and $202 million ($125 million after-tax or $0.18 per diluted share) gain on sale of certain marketable equity securities. 
               (h)   
    Includes $149 million ($94 million after-tax or $0.13 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Company s Accu-Sort and Kollmorgen Electro-Optical businesses. 
               (i)   
    The Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in 2016 to $0.16 per share and subsequently reduced its quarterly dividend rate to $0.125 per share as a result of the Separation of Fortive in the third quarter of 2016. 
                *  
    Net earnings per share amounts do not add due to rounding. 

28 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) is designed to provide a reader of Danaher s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management.  The Company s MD A is divided into five sections: 
             
    Overview 
                
    Results of Operations 
                
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
                
    Critical Accounting Estimates 
                
    New Accounting Standards 
     This discussion and analysis should be read along with Danaher s audited financial statements and related Notes thereto as of December 31,   2016   and   2015   and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016   included in this Annual Report.  Unless otherwise indicated, references to sales in this Annual Report refer to sales from continuing operations. 
  OVERVIEW 
  General 
  Refer to  Item 1. Business General  for a discussion of Danaher s objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value.  Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations.  During   2016  , approximately   62%   of Danaher s sales were derived from customers outside the United States.  As a diversified, global business, Danaher s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors.  Danaher s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products and services, help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on its consolidated operating results.  Given the broad range of products manufactured, services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company.  The Company s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. 
  As a result of the Company s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company s competitors and increasing regulation.  The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated environment.  The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company s operations.  
  Business Performance 
  Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31,   2016     increased     17.0%   as compared to   2015  .  While differences exist among the Company s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company s products and services increased at a similar rate in   2016   as compared to   2015  .  This demand, together with the Company s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below, contributed to year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses of   3.0%   (for the definition of  sales from existing businesses,  refer to   Results of Operations  below).  Geographically, both high-growth and developed markets contributed to year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses during   2016  .  Sales growth rates from existing businesses in high-growth markets grew at a high-single digit rate in   2016   as compared to   2015   led by strength in China, India and Latin America partially offset by weakness in Eastern Europe.  High-growth markets represented approximately 29% of the Company s total sales in   2016  .  Sales from existing businesses in developed markets grew at a low-single digit rate in   2016   as compared to   2015   and were driven by North America and Western Europe. 
  
   29 

     Table of Contents  

The acquisitions of Pall and Cepheid, as further discussed below, provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company s Life Sciences and Diagnostics segments, respectively, by expanding each segment s geographic and product line diversity, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the area of life sciences, filtration, separation and purification technologies (in the case of Pall) and molecular diagnostics (in the case of Cepheid), and through the potential future acquisition of complementary businesses.  As Pall and Cepheid are integrated into the Company, the Company also expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company, Pall and Cepheid. 
  Fortive Separation 
  On July 2, 2016, Danaher completed the Separation of its former Test   Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business by distributing to Danaher stockholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Fortive  , the entity Danaher incorporated to hold such businesses.    To effect the Separation, Danaher distributed to its stockholders one share of Fortive common stock for every two shares of Danaher common stock outstanding as of June 15, 2016, the record date for the distribution. 
  During the second quarter of 2016, the Company received net cash distributions of approximately   $3.0 billion   from Fortive as consideration for the Company s contribution of assets to Fortive in connection with the Separation ( Fortive Distribution )  .  Danaher used a portion of the cash distribution proceeds to repay the   $500 million     aggregate principal amount of   2.3%   senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2016 and to redeem approximately   $1.9 billion   in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in August 2016 (consisting of the   Company s   5.625%   senior unsecured notes due 2018,   5.4%   senior unsecured notes due 2019 and   3.9%   senior unsecured notes due 2021   (collectively the  Redeemed Notes ))  .  Danaher also paid an aggregate of   $188 million   in make-whole premiums in connection with the August 2016 redemptions, plus accrued and unpaid interest.    The Company has also used, and intends to use, the balance of the Fortive Distribution to fund certain of the Company s regular, quarterly cash dividends to shareholders.  
  The accounting requirements for reporting the Separation of Fortive as a discontinued operation were met when the Separation was completed.  Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented reflect this business as a discontinued operation.  The Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense and income to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business  net assets to the Company s consolidated net assets.    Fortive had revenues of approximately   $3.0 billion   in 2016 prior to the Separation and approximately   $6.1 billion   in 2015.    
  As a result of the Separation, the Company incurred   $48 million   in Separation-related costs during the year ended     December 31, 2016   which are included in earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  These Separation costs primarily relate to professional fees associated with preparation of regulatory filings and Separation activities within finance, tax, legal and information system functions as well as certain investment banking fees and tax liabilities incurred upon the Separation.    
  Acquisitions 
  On   November 4, 2016  , Copper Merger Sub, Inc., a California corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Cepheid, a California corporation, for   $53.00   per share in cash, for a total purchase price of approximately   $4.0 billion, including assumed debt and net of acquired cash (the  Cepheid Acquisition )  .  Cepheid is a leading global molecular diagnostics company that develops, manufactures and markets accurate and easy to use molecular systems and tests and is now part of the Company s Diagnostics segment.  Cepheid generated revenues of   $539 million   in 2015.      The Company financed the Cepheid acquisition price with available cash and proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar and euro-denominated commercial paper.    
  In addition to the Cepheid Acquisition, during   2016   the Company acquired   seven   businesses for total consideration of   $882 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company s   four   segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   seven   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were   $237 million  .  
  For a discussion of the Company s   2015   and   2014   acquisition and disposition activity, refer to  Liquidity and Capital Resources Investing Activities . 
  Sale of Investments 
  The Company received   $265 million   of cash proceeds from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2016.  The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of   $223 million   (  $140 million   after-tax or   $0.20   per diluted share). 
  
   30 

     Table of Contents  

For a discussion of the Company s   2015   and   2014   sale of investments activity, refer to  Liquidity and Capital Resources Investing Activities . 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refer to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ) but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses and (2) the impact of currency translation.  References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales and operating profit, as applicable, attributable to divested product lines not considered discontinued operations.  The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) and (b) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period.  Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in Danaher s business and facilitating easier comparisons of Danaher s revenue performance with its performance in prior and future periods and to Danaher s peers.  The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under management s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestiture related items because the nature, size and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period-to-period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult.  Throughout this discussion, references to sales volume refer to the impact of both price and unit sales and references to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies resulting from the application of the Danaher Business System. 
  Sales Growth (GAAP) 

Components of Sales Growth (non-GAAP) 

Sales from existing businesses grew on a year-over-year basis in all segments in both   2016   and   2015  .  Sales from acquired businesses grew on a year-over-year basis in both years primarily due to the acquisitions of Pall in the third quarter of 2015 and Cepheid in the fourth quarter of 2016.  The impact of currency translation reduced on a year-over-year basis reported sales in both years as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies. 
  Operating profit margins were   16.3%   for the year ended   December 31, 2016   as compared to   15.0%   in   2015  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:  
             
    Higher   2016   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2016   and   2015  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2016   -   115   basis points 
                
    Acquisition-related charges in 2015 associated with the acquisition of Pall, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits   -   90   basis points 
     
   31 

     Table of Contents  

Acquisition-related charges in the first quarter of 2015 associated with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, primarily related to fair value adjustments to acquired inventory   -   15   basis points 
                
    The 2016 gains on resolution of acquisition-related matters -   10   basis points 
     2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Acquisition-related charges in 2016 associated primarily with the acquisition of Cepheid,   including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control and restructuring payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue   -   50   basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2016   of acquired businesses -   50   basis points 
     The Company deems acquisition-related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Company s larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition-related transaction costs typical for the Company in a given period. 
  Operating profit margins were   15.0%   for the year ended   December 31, 2015   as compared to   15.9%   in   2014  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher   2015   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2015   and   2014  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2015   -   85   basis points 
                
    Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives -   30   basis points 
     2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Acquisition-related charges in 2015 associated with the acquisition of Pall, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits   -   90   basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2015   of acquired businesses, including Pall, net of the positive effect of the product line disposition in the third quarter of 2014 -   115   basis points 
     Business Segments 
  Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions): 

LIFE SCIENCES 
  The Company s Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines.  The segment, through its Pall   business, is also a leading provider of filtration, separation and purification technologies to the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical, aerospace, microelectronics and general industrial sectors.    
  
   32 

     Table of Contents  

Life Sciences Selected Financial Data  

Sales Growth (GAAP) 

Components of Sales Growth (non-GAAP) 

2016   Compared to   2015 
  Price increases did not have a significant impact on sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2016   as compared with   2015  . 
  Sales of the business  broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in the pharmaceutical market in China and India as well as the services businesses.  This growth was partially offset by declines in the overall market in Japan and softness in demand in the clinical end-market in North America.  Sales of microscopy products were essentially flat on a year-over-year basis with growth in demand in North America and China offset by declines in Japan.  Year-over-year demand for the business  flow cytometry and particle counting products grew in   2016  , led by increases in demand in North America, Western Europe and China. 
  The acquisition of Pall in August 2015 contributed the majority of the increase in sales from acquisitions.  During the year ended December 31,   2016  , Pall s revenues grew on a year-over-year basis compared to the business  2015 results, led by continued growth in the life sciences business primarily due to demand for biopharmaceutical solutions including single-use technologies, partially offset by soft demand in the industrial business as a result of overall market weakness. 
  Operating profit margins   increased     540   basis points during   2016   as compared to   2015  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher   2016   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2016   and   2015  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2016   -   175   basis points 
                
    Acquisition-related charges in 2015 associated with the acquisition of Pall, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits   -   390   basis points 
     
   33 

     Table of Contents  

2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Acquisition-related charges in 2016,   including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control and restructuring payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue   -   10   basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2016   of acquired businesses -   15   basis points 
     Depreciation and amortization expense increased during   2016   as compared to   2015   due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses, particularly Pall. 
  2015   Compared to   2014    
  Price increases in the segment contributed   0.5%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2015   as compared with   2014   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s life sciences business grew at a low-single digit rate during   2015   as compared to   2014  .  Geographically, sales grew on a year-over-year basis in North America and Western Europe partially offset by declines in the Middle East and Brazil.  Sales of the business  broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in the clinical markets in North America, Western Europe and China.  Sales of confocal and stereo microscopy products decreased on a year-over-year basis led by declines in Western Europe and high-growth markets which were partially offset by growth in surgical microscopy products, primarily in North America.  Year-over-year demand for the business  flow cytometry and sample preparation product lines grew in   2015  , led by increases in demand in North America, Western Europe and China. 
  The acquisition of Pall in August 2015 contributed the majority of the increase in sales from acquisitions for 2015. 
  Operating profit margins   declined     480   basis points during   2015   as compared to   2014  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.  
  2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2015 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2015   and   2014  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in 2015 -   30   basis points 
                
    Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives -   25   basis points 
     2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Acquisition-related charges in 2015 associated with the acquisition of Pall, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits   -   390   basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2015   of acquired businesses (including Pall) -   145   basis points 
     Depreciation and amortization expense increased during   2015   as compared to   2014   due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses, particularly Pall, and the resulting increase in depreciable and amortizable assets. 

DIAGNOSTICS 
  The Company s Diagnostics segment offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians  offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions.    
  
   34 

     Table of Contents  

Diagnostics Selected Financial Data 

Sales Growth (GAAP) 

Components of Sales Growth (non-GAAP) 

2016   Compared to   2015 
  Price increases in the segment contributed   0.5%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2016   as compared with   2015   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Geographically, demand in the clinical lab business increased on a year-over-year basis led by continuing strong demand in high-growth markets, particularly China, partially offset by declines in North America.  Increased demand in the immunoassay products drove the majority of growth for the year in the clinical business.  Continued strong consumable sales in   2016   particularly in China, Western Europe, North America and Japan drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the acute care diagnostic business.  Increased demand for advanced staining consumables, particularly in North America and China, and core histology instruments across most major geographies, but particularly in China, drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the pathology diagnostics business. 
  The acquisition of Cepheid in November 2016 provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding geographic and product line diversity, including new product and service offerings in the areas of molecular diagnostics.  As Cepheid is integrated into the Company over the next several years, the Company expects to realize significant synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System. 
  Operating profit margins   increased     20   basis points during   2016   as compared to   2015  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher   2016   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2016   and   2015  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2016   -   200   basis points 
     
   35 

     Table of Contents  

2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    Acquisition-related charges in 2016 associated with the acquisition of Cepheid,   including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control and restructuring payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue   -   150   basis points 
                
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2016   of acquired businesses -   30   basis points 
     Amortization increased during   2016   as compared with   2015   primarily due to the impact of recently acquired businesses including Cepheid and the resulting increase in amortizable assets. 
  2015   Compared to   2014    
  Price increases in the segment contributed   0.5%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2015   as compared with   2014   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate during   2015   as compared to   2014  .  Demand in the clinical lab business increased on a year-over-year basis led by growth in the urinalysis and immunoassay consumable products primarily from continuing strong demand in China and other high-growth markets.  Continued strong consumable sales in   2015   related to the installed base of blood gas instruments in developed markets as well as strong instrument placement particularly in China and the Middle East drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the critical care diagnostic business.  Increased demand for advanced staining systems and consumables as well as probes primarily in North America and China drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the anatomical pathology diagnostics business. 
  Operating profit margins   declined     30   basis points during   2015   as compared to   2014  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher   2015   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2015   and   2014  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2015   -   40   basis points 
                
    Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives -   30   basis points 
     2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2015   of acquired businesses -   100   basis points 

DENTAL 
  The Company s Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile.  The Company is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and is dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity.    
  Dental Selected Financial Data  

36 

     Table of Contents  

Sales Growth (GAAP) 

Components of Sales Growth (non-GAAP) 

2016   Compared to   2015    
  Price increases in the segment contributed   0.5%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2016   as compared with   2015   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Geographically, year-over-year sales growth was strong in China and other high-growth markets, with low-single digit growth in the United States partially offset by lower demand in Western Europe.  Continued strong year-over-year demand for implant solutions, particularly in China and North America, and increased demand for orthodontic products, primarily in China and Russia, drove growth during   2016  .  Dental equipment sales also increased during   2016  , primarily in high-growth markets and North America partially offset by weaker demand in Western Europe.  Lower demand for dental consumable product lines in North America and the Middle East partially offset this year-over-year growth in   2016  . 
  Operating profit margins   increased     160   basis points during   2016   as compared to   2015  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher 2016 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2016   and   2015  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2016   -   90   basis points 
                
    Acquisition-related charges in the first quarter of 2015 associated with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, primarily related to fair value adjustments to acquired inventory   -   80   basis points 
     2016   vs.   2015   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2016   of acquired businesses -   10   basis points 
     2015   Compared to   2014    
  Price increases in the segment contributed   0.5%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2015   as compared with   2014   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses were flat on a year-over-year basis as increased demand for dental treatment units and consumable products, including orthodontic products, primarily in China and other high-growth markets, was offset by softness in demand for imaging products, largely due to destocking in the North American distribution channel, and weaker demand in Western Europe.  Lower year-over-year demand for dental equipment in the Middle East due to slower project activity during 2015 also adversely impacted year-over-year performance.  The acquisition of Nobel Biocare in December 2014 has provided additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company s Dental segment by expanding the businesses  geographic and product line diversity, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the area of implant based tooth replacements. 
  
   37 

     Table of Contents  

Operating profit margins   declined     40   basis points during   2015   as compared to   2014  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2015   and   2014  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2015   -   45   basis points 
                
    Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives -   10   basis points 
     2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2015   of acquired businesses -   95   basis points 
     Depreciation and amortization increased during   2015   as compared with   2014   due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses, primarily Nobel Biocare, and the resulting increase in depreciable and amortizable assets. 

ENVIRONMENTAL   APPLIED SOLUTIONS 
  The Company s Environmental   Applied Solutions segment products and services help protect important resources and keep global food and water supplies safe.      The Company s water quality business provides instrumentation, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.      The Company s product identification business provides equipment, consumables, software and services for various printing, marking, coding, traceability, packaging, design and color management applications on consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products. 
  Environmental   Applied Solutions Selected Financial Data  

Sales Growth (GAAP) 

Components of Sales Growth (non-GAAP) 

38 

     Table of Contents  

2016   Compared to   2015    
  Price increases in the segment contributed   1.0%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2016   as compared with   2015   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s water quality businesses grew at a low-single digit rate during   2016   as compared with   2015  .  Year-over-year sales in the analytical instrumentation product line grew, as increases in sales to the U.S. municipal end-market and Western Europe were partially offset by lower demand in Eastern Europe and China.  Year-over-year sales growth in the business  chemical treatment solutions product line was due primarily to an expansion of the customer base in the United States.  Chemical treatment solutions saw an improvement in commodity oriented end-markets in Latin America in the fourth quarter of 2016 after declining growth in the earlier portion of 2016.  Sales in the business  ultraviolet water disinfection product line grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to higher demand in municipal and industrial end-markets in Western Europe, China and Australia.  
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during   2016   as compared with   2015  .  Continued strong year-over-year demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables in most major geographies, led by North America, Western Europe and Latin America, drove the majority of the sales growth. Demand for the business  packaging and color solutions was flat year-over-year, as sales growth in the second half of the year was offset by weakness in the first half of the year.  Geographically, increased demand in the high-growth markets was offset by weaker demand in North America and Europe. 
  Operating profit margins   declined     80   basis points during   2016   as compared to   2015  .  The following factors unfavorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons: 
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2016   of acquired businesses -   75   basis points 
                
    Incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2016  , net of higher   2016   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2016   and   2015   -   5   basis points  
     2015   Compared to   2014 
  Price increases in the segment contributed   1.0%   to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during   2015   as compared with   2014   and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s water quality businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during   2015   as compared with   2014  .  Sales growth in the analytical instrumentation product line continued to be led by strong sales of instruments and related consumables and services in North America, primarily in the U.S. municipal end-market, Europe and China (although growth slowed sequentially in China during the fourth quarter of 2015, partly due to delays in government projects).  Year-over-year sales growth in the business  chemical treatment solutions product line was due to continued growth in the United States as well as continued business expansion in Latin America.  Sales in the business  ultraviolet water disinfection product line grew on a year-over-year basis due to continued demand in industrial disinfection end-markets in the United States and municipal end-markets in the United States and Western Europe. 
  Sales from existing businesses in the segment s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during   2015   as compared with   2014  , due to continued increased demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables as well as packaging and color solutions.  Geographically, year-over-year sales growth was led by North America and Europe (although North America declined slightly in the fourth quarter of 2015), but was partly offset by softer demand for the business  packaging and color solutions in Brazil and Russia. 
  Operating profit margins   increased     230   basis points during   2015   as compared to   2014  .  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 
  2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: 
             
    Higher   2015   sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in   2015   and   2014  , net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of a stronger U.S. dollar in   2015   -   225   basis points 
     
   39 

     Table of Contents  

Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives -   50   basis points 
     2015   vs.   2014   operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 
             
    The incremental net dilutive effect in   2015   of acquired businesses -   45   basis points 

COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT 

The year-over-year   increase   in cost of sales during   2016   as compared with   2015  , is due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses.  This increase in cost of sales was partially offset by year-over-year cost savings at recently acquired businesses, particularly Pall, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring and continued productivity improvement actions taken in   2016   and   2015  , and the year-over-year decrease in acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory which decreased cost of sales by $85 million during 2016 as compared to 2015. 
  The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during   2015   as compared with   2014  , is due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales volumes from recently acquired businesses, and 2015 acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory in connection with the acquisition of Pall and Nobel Biocare during the third quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, which increased cost of sales by $106 million during 2015.  These factors were partially offset by lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in   2015   and   2014  . 
  The year-over-year   increase   i  n gross profit margins during   2016   as compared with   2015   is due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in   2016   and   2015   and improved gross profit margins on a year-over-year basis at recently acquired businesses, particularly Pall.  In addition, the acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue were higher in 2015 than 2016, which improved gross profit margins by 50 basis points during   2016   as compared with   2015  . 
  The year-over-year   increase   i  n gross profit margins during   2015   as compared with   2014   is due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, higher gross profit margins of recently acquired businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in   2015   and   2014  .  These positive factors more than offset the increase in acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue in connection with the acquisition of Pall and Nobel Biocare during the third quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, which adversely impacted gross profit margins comparisons by 80 basis points during 2015 as compared with 2014. 

OPERATING EXPENSES 

40 

     Table of Contents  

The   increase   in SG A expenses as a percentage of sales from   2015   to   2016   was driven by continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives and higher relative spending levels at recently acquired businesses.  Change in control payments and restructuring costs in connection with the acquisition of Cepheid, as well as associated transaction costs, also increased SG A expenses as a percentage of sales by 35 basis points during   2016  .  These increases were partially offset by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2016 sales, lower year-over-year costs associated continuing productivity improvement initiatives and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in   2016   and   2015   as well as the benefit of lower Pall acquisition charges in 2016 compared to 2015 as described below. 
  SG A expenses as a percentage of sales increased   150   basis points on a year-over-year basis for   2015   compared with   2014  .  The increase in SG A expenses as a percentage of sales from   2014   to   2015   was driven by continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives and higher relative spending levels at recently acquired businesses.  Change in control payments to Pall employees in connection with the acquisition of Pall, as well as associated transaction costs and amortization charges associated with acquisition-related intangible assets, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits, adversely impacted SG A expenses as a percentage of sales by 30 basis points during   2015  .  These increases were partially offset by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2015 sales, lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in   2015   and   2014  . 
  R D expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales   declined   in   2016   as compared with   2015   due primarily to lower R D expenses as a percentage of sales in the businesses most recently acquired, particularly Pall, as well as year-over-year differences in the timing of investments in the Company s new product development initiatives.  R D expenses as a percentage of sales were flat in   2015   as compared to   2014  . 

NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE)  
  In the third quarter of 2016, the Company paid   $188 million   of make-whole premiums associated with the early extinguishment of the Redeemed Notes.  The Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of these borrowings, net of certain deferred gains, of   $179 million   (  $112 million   after-tax or   $0.16   per diluted share). 
  The Company received   $265 million   of cash proceeds from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during the first quarter of 2016.  The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of   $223 million   (  $140 million   after-tax or   $0.20   per diluted share). 
  During   2015  , the Company received cash proceeds of   $43 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of   $12 million   (  $8 million   after-tax or   $0.01   per diluted share). 
  During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $167 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of   $123 million   (  $77 million   after-tax or   $0.11   per diluted share).  
  INTEREST COSTS 
  Interest expense of   $184 million   for   2016   was   $45 million     higher   than in   2015  , due primarily to the higher interest costs associated with the debt issued in the second half of 2015 in connection with the 2015 acquisition of Pall, partially offset by decreases in interest costs as a result of the early extinguishment of the Redeemed Notes in the third quarter of 2016 using the proceeds from the Fortive Distribution.  For a further description of the Company s debt as of   December 31, 2016   refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Interest expense of   $140 million   in   2015   was   $45 million   higher than the   2014   interest expense of   $95 million   due primarily to the higher interest costs associated with the debt issued in the second half of 2015 in connection with the acquisition of Pall. 

INCOME TAXES 
  General 
  Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company s financial statements.  The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. 
  The Company s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and  
  
   41 

     Table of Contents  

examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws, including legislative policy changes that may result from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development s initiative on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting and potential tax reform in the United States.  For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Cash and Cash Requirements  below. 
  The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments.  Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis.  Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitations, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary.  For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors . 
  Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate 
  The Company s effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was   17.5%  ,   14.4%   and   21.5%  , respectively. 
  The Company s effective tax rate for each of   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35.0% due principally to the Company s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate.   
             
    The effective tax rate of   17.5%   in   2016   includes   350   basis points of net tax benefits from permanent foreign exchange losses and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation and audit settlements, partially offset by income tax expense related to repatriation of earnings and legal entity realignments associated with the Separation and changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. 
                
    The effective tax rate of   14.4%   in   2015   includes   290   basis points of net tax benefits from permanent foreign exchange losses, releases of valuation allowances related to foreign operating losses and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation, partially offset by changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. 
                
    The effective tax rate of   21.5%   in   2014   includes   250   basis points of tax expense for audit settlements in various jurisdictions, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation. 
     The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the United States federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.  The countries in which the Company has a material presence that have significantly lower statutory tax rates than the United States include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  The Company s ability to obtain a tax benefit from lower statutory tax rates outside of the United States depends on its levels of taxable income in these foreign countries and the amount of foreign earnings which are indefinitely reinvested in those countries.  The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company s taxable income.    
  The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities.  The   IRS   has completed substantially all of the examinations of the Company s federal income tax returns through 2010 and is currently examining certain of the Company s federal income tax returns for 2011 through 2013.  In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2004 through 2015.    
  Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company s subsidiaries.  On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority ( SKAT ) totaling approximately     DKK 1.4 billion   (approximately   $195 million   based on exchange rates as of   December 31, 2016  )   including interest through December 31, 2016, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company s subsidiaries for the years 2004-2009.  The Company is currently in discussions with SKAT and anticipates receiving an assessment for years 2010-2012 totaling approximately   DKK 814 million   (approximately   $115 million   based on exchange rates as of   December 31, 2016  ).    Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and is vigorously defending its positions.  The Company appealed these assessments with the National Tax Tribunal in 2014 and intends on pursuing this matter through the European Court of Justice should this appeal  
  
   42 

     Table of Contents  

be unsuccessful.  The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company s financial statements, including its effective tax rate.    
  As previously disclosed, German tax authorities had raised issues related to the deductibility and taxability of interest accrued by certain of the Company s subsidiaries.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the German tax authorities to resolve these open matters through 2014.  The Company recorded    49 million   (approximately   $60 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) of expense for taxes and interest related to this settlement during the fourth quarter of 2014.    
  The Company s effective tax rate for   2017   is expected to be approximately 21%.  Any future legislative changes or potential tax reform in the United States or other jurisdictions could cause the Company s effective tax rate to differ from this estimate.  This expected rate reflects the anticipated discrete income tax benefits from excess tax deductions related to the Company s stock compensation programs, which will be reflected as a reduction in tax expense beginning in 2017 (refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this change in accounting guidance). 

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  
  As further discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, discontinued operations includes the results of the Fortive businesses which were disposed of during the third quarter 2016 as well as the results of the Company s former communications business which was disposed of during the third quarter of 2015.  All periods presented have been restated to reflect the Fortive and communications businesses within discontinued operations.  
  In 2016,   earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes  , were   $400 million   and reflected the operating results of the Fortive businesses prior to the Separation.  In 2015 and 2014,   earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes  , were approximately   $1.6 billion   and   $960 million  , respectively and reflected the operations of both the Fortive and communications businesses as well as the gain on the sale of the communications business in 2015. 

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  Comprehensive income   decreased   by   $617 million   in   2016   as compared to   2015  , primarily due to the impact of decreases in net earnings attributable to discontinued operations, foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to most major currencies during the year but at a lower rate than in the prior year, and pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments.  The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of   $517 million   for   2016   compared to a translation loss of   $976 million   for   2015  .  The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit loss of   $58 million   for   2016   compared to a gain of   $81 million   for   2015  . 
  Comprehensive income increased by approximately   $1.5 billion   in   2015   as compared to   2014  , primarily due to the impact of increases in net earnings (including those attributable to discontinued operations), foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to most major currencies during the year but at a lower rate than in the prior year, and pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments.  The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of   $976 million   for   2015   compared to a translation loss of approximately   $1.2 billion   for   2014  .  Pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments resulted in a gain of   $81 million   in   2015   compared to a loss of   $361 million   in   2014  . 
  INFLATION 
  The effect of inflation on the Company s revenues and net earnings was not significant in any of the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   or   2014  . 

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
  The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices as well as credit risk, each of which could impact its financial statements.  The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities.  In addition, the Company s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole. 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt.  A change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt but not the Company s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed.  Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall  
  
   43 

     Table of Contents  

and decrease as interest rates rise.  As of   December 31, 2016  , an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from the value of its underlying common stock) by approximately $335 million. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar and euro-based commercial paper borrowings (refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s outstanding commercial paper balances as of   December 31, 2016  ).  As a result, the Company s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates.  As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings.  In   2016  , the average annual interest rate associated with outstanding commercial paper borrowings was approximately 10 basis points.  A hypothetical increase of this average to 20 basis points would have increased the Company s annual interest expense by $7 million. 
  Currency Exchange Rate Risk 
  The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates.  Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher s functional currency or the functional currency of its applicable subsidiary.  The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher s functional currency.  Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period.  As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar.  In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies.  Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.  The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders  equity.  A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of   December 31, 2016   would have resulted in a reduction of stockholders  equity of approximately $1.6 billion. 
  Currency exchange rates   negatively   impacted   2016   reported sales by   1.0%   on a year-over-year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against most major currencies during   2016   as compared to exchange rate levels during   2015  .  If the exchange rates in effect as of   December 31, 2016   were to prevail throughout   2017  , currency exchange rates would adversely impact   2017   estimated sales by approximately 2.5% relative to the Company s performance in   2016  .  Additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would further adversely impact the Company s sales and results of operations on an overall basis.  Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would positively impact the Company s sales and results of operations. 
  The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk, although the Company s foreign currency-denominated debt partially hedges its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates.  Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Equity Price Risk 
  The Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio includes publicly traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price.  Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities.  A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of   December 31, 2016   would have reduced the fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio by $17 million. 
  Commodity Price Risk 
  For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
  
   44 

     Table of Contents  

Credit Risk 
  The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments.  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives.  The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution.  Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents.  The Company s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. 
  In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company s customers.  The Company s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers  financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. 
  The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and such transactions are generally insignificant to the Company s financial condition and results of operations.  These transactions are typically entered into with high-quality financial institutions and exposure at any one institution is limited. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  Management assesses the Company s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities.  The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis. 

Following is an overview of the Company s cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31: 
  Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity 

Operating cash flows from continuing operations   increased     $255 million  , or approximately   9%  , during   2016   as compared to   2015  , due primarily to higher net earnings which also included higher noncash charges for depreciation, amortization and stock compensation.  Higher levels of investment in working capital during   2016   compared with   2015   partially offset the increase in operating cash flows for the year. 
     
   45 

     Table of Contents  

Cash paid for acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash during   2016  .  The Company acquired   eight   businesses during   2016  , including the acquisition of Cepheid, for total consideration (including assumed debt and net of cash acquired) of approximately   $4.9 billion  . 
                
    On July 2, 2016 Danaher completed the Fortive Separation.  Prior to the Separation, Fortive provided approximately   $3.0 billion   of net cash distributions to Danaher. 
                
    The Company used a portion of the Fortive Distribution proceeds to repay the   $500 million     aggregate principal amount of   2.3%   senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2016 and to redeem approximately   $1.9 billion   in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in August 2016 (consisting of the   Redeemed Notes)  .  Danaher also paid an aggregate of   $188 million   in make-whole premiums in connection with the August 2016 redemptions, plus accrued and unpaid interest.    
                
    The Company also generated   $2.2 billion   of net proceeds from the issuances of commercial paper borrowings, which were primarily used to fund the Cepheid Acquisition. 
                
    The Company distributed cash of   $485 million  , in addition to approximately   $2.0 billion   of noncash net assets, to Fortive in connection with the Separation. 
      Operating Activities 
  Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period-to-period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. 
  Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately   $3.1 billion   for   2016  ,   an increase   of   $255 million  , or approximately   9%  , as compared to   2015  .  The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from   2015   to   2016   was primarily attributable to the following factors: 
             
    2016   operating cash flows benefited from higher net earnings as compared to   2015   (excluding the 2016 impact of the gain from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and the loss on early extinguishment of borrowings which are included in nonoperating income (expense)).  The cash flow impact of the nonoperating gain from the sale of certain marketable equity securities is reflected in investing activities while the cash flow impact of the nonoperating loss on the early extinguishment of borrowings is reflected in financing activities, and therefore, these do not contribute to operating cash flows. 
                
    The aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable   used     $96 million   in operating cash flows during   2016  , compared to   providing   operating cash flows of   $198 million   in   2015  .  The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable depends upon how effectively the Company manages the cash conversion cycle, which effectively represents the number of days that elapse from the day it pays for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from its customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of collections and payments in a period. 
                
    The aggregate of prepaid expenses and other assets, deferred income taxes and accrued expenses and other liabilities   used     $184 million   in operating cash flows during   2016  , compared to   $84 million     used   in   2015  .  The timing of cash payments for income taxes and various employee related liabilities, including with respect to recently acquired companies, drove the majority of this change. 
                
    Net earnings from continuing operations for   2016   reflected   an increase   of   $247 million   of depreciation and amortization expense as compared to   2015  .  Amortization expense primarily relates to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions.  Depreciation expense relates to both the Company s manufacturing and operating facilities as well as instrumentation leased to customers under operating-type lease arrangements.  Depreciation and amortization are noncash expenses that decrease earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows. 
     Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately   $2.8 billion   for   2015  ,   an increase   of   $161 million  , or   6%   as compared to   2014  . This   increase   was primarily attributable to the   increase   in net earnings in   2015   as compared to   2014  .  
  
   46 

     Table of Contents  

Investing Activities 
  Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, cash used for investments and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets. 
  Net cash used in investing activities was approximately   $5.2 billion   during   2016   compared to approximately   $15.0 billion   and approximately   $3.4 billion   of net cash used in   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  2016   Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  For a discussion of the Company s   2016   acquisitions, divestitures and the sale of certain marketable equity securities, refer to   Overview.  
  2015   Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  On August 31, 2015, Pentagon Merger Sub, Inc., a New York corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pall  , a New York corporation, for   $127.20   per share in cash, for a total purchase price of approximately   $13.6 billion  , net of assumed debt of   $417 million   and acquired cash of approximately   $1.2 billion   (the  Pall Acquisition ).  Pall is part of the Company s Life Sciences segment.  In its fiscal year ended July 31, 2015, Pall generated consolidated revenues of approximately   $2.8 billion  . 
  The Company financed the approximately   $13.6 billion   acquisition price of Pall with approximately   $2.5 billion   of available cash, approximately   $8.1 billion   of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of U.S. dollar and euro-denominated commercial paper and    2.7 billion   (approximately   $3.0 billion   based on currency exchange rates as of the date of issuance) of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of euro-denominated senior unsecured notes.  Subsequent to the Pall Acquisition, the Company used the approximately   $2.0 billion   of net proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes and the approximately   CHF 755 million   (  $732 million   based on currency exchange rates as of date of issuance) of net proceeds, including the related premium, from the issuance and sale of Swiss franc-denominated senior unsecured bonds to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Pall Acquisition. 
  In addition to the Pall Acquisition, during 2015 the Company acquired   nine   businesses for total consideration of approximately   $670 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company s   four   segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   nine   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $355 million  . 
  In July 2015, the Company consummated the split-off of the majority of its former communications business to Danaher shareholders who elected to exchange Danaher shares for ownership interests in the communications business, and the subsequent merger of the communications business with a subsidiary of NetScout  .  Danaher shareholders who participated in the exchange offer tendered   26 million   shares of Danaher common stock (approximately   $2.3 billion   on the date of tender) and received   62.5 million   shares of NetScout common stock which represented approximately   60%   of the shares of NetScout common stock outstanding following the combination.    
  The accounting requirements for reporting the disposition of the communications business as a discontinued operation were met when the split-off and merger were completed.  Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented reflect this business as discontinued operations.  The Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business  net assets to the Company s consolidated net assets.    The Company recorded an aggregate after-tax gain on the disposition of this business of   $767 million  , or   $1.08   per diluted share, in its 2015 results in connection with the closing of this transaction representing the value of the   26 million   shares of Company common stock tendered for the communications business in excess of the carrying value of the business  net assets.  This gain was included in the results of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2015.  The communications business had revenues of   $346 million   in 2015 prior to the disposition and   $760 million   in 2014. 
  During 2015, the Company received cash proceeds of   $43 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of   $12 million  . 
  2014   Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments 
  In December 2014, the Company completed its tender offer for the outstanding shares of common stock of Nobel Biocare   and acquired substantially all of the Nobel Biocare shares, with the remainder of the Nobel Biocare shares acquired in 2015 pursuant to a squeeze-out transaction, for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately   CHF 1.9 billion   (approximately  
  
   47 

     Table of Contents  

$1.9 billion   based on exchange rates as of the date the shares of common stock were acquired) including debt assumed and net of cash acquired.  Nobel Biocare had revenues of    567 million   in 2013 (approximately   $780 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2013), and is now part of the Company s Dental segment.    The Company financed the acquisition of Nobel Biocare from available cash.    
  In addition to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, during 2014 the Company acquired   10   businesses for total consideration of     $978 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company s     four     segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   10   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $285 million  . 
  During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $167 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of   $123 million   (  $77 million   after-tax or   $0.11   per diluted share). 
  Capital Expenditures 
  Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development, improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company s businesses enter into with customers.  Capital expenditures totaled   $590 million   in   2016  ,   $513 million   in   2015   and   $465 million   in   2014  .  The   increase   in capital spending in   2016   is due to increased investments in   machinery and equipment  , including operating assets at newly acquired businesses such as Pall, and to a lesser extent, increases in equipment leased to customers.  The   increase   in capital spending in   2015   is due to investments in   machinery and equipment  , including operating assets at newly acquired businesses such as Nobel Biocare and Pall, partially offset by year-over-year differences in the timing of investments in equipment leased to customers.  In   2017  , the Company expects capital spending to be approximately $750 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. 
  Financing Activities 
  Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of commercial paper and other debt, issuances and repurchases of common stock, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and payments of cash dividends to shareholders.  Financing activities   provided   cash of approximately   $2.0 billion   during   2016   compared to approximately   $9.1 billion   of cash   provided   during   2015  .  Cash   provided by   financing activities in   2016   primarily relates to approximately $3.4 billion of net proceeds received from the issuance of the Fortive Debt in June 2016 and the net issuance of outstanding borrowings with maturities of 90 days or less, primarily commercial paper borrowings, of approximately $2.2 billion, and the issuance of approximately  29.9 billion aggregate principal amount (approximately $262 million based on the currency exchange rate as of the date of the issuance) of 0.352% senior unsecured notes.  These issuances were partially offset by the repayment of the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2016, the repayment of approximately $1.9 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in August 2016 (consisting of the Redeemed Notes), the repayment of the $124 million aggregate principal amount of the 4.0% senior unsecured notes due in October 2016  and $485 million of cash distributed to Fortive in connection with the Separation.  
  Total debt was approximately     $12.3 billion     and     $12.9 billion   as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively.  The Company   had the ability to incur approximately an additional   $1.1 billion   of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under the Com  pany s   $7.0 billion   of credit facilities which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances     as of December 31,     2016  .  Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company s outstanding debt as of December 31,     2016  , and the Company s commercial paper program and related credit facilities. 

Shelf Registration Statement 
  The Company has filed a  well-known seasoned issuer  shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance.  The Company utilized this shelf registration statement for the offering and sale of the U.S. dollar and euro-denominated senior unsecured notes issued to finance the Pall Acquisition.  The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends and working capital. 
  Stock Repurchase Program 
  On July 16, 2013, the Company s Board of Directors approved a repurchase program (the  Repurchase Program ) authorizing  
  
   48 

     Table of Contents  

the repurchase of up to   20 million   shares of the Company s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  There is no expiration date for the Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.  The Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company s equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes.  As of   December 31, 2016  ,   20 million   shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the Repurchase Program.  The Company expects to fund any future stock repurchases using the Company s available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of indebtedness. 
  Except in connection with the disposition of the Company s communications business to NetScout in 2015, neither the Company nor any  affiliated purchaser  repurchased any shares of Company common stock during     2016  ,   2015   or   2014  .  Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the   26 million   shares of Danaher common stock tendered to and repurchased by the Company in connection with the disposition of the Company s communications business to NetScout. 
  Dividends 
  The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share that was paid on January 27, 2017 to holders of record on December 30, 2016.  Aggregate cash payments for dividends during   2016   were   $400 million  .  Dividend payments were higher in   2016   as compared to   2015   as the Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in the first quarter of   2016   to $0.16 per share.  Following the Fortive Separation in the third quarter of 2016, the Company reduced its quarterly dividend rate to $0.125 per share. 
  For a description of the dividend of Fortive shares in July 2016, refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Cash and Cash Requirements 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company held   $964 million   of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment-grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 0.10%.  Of this amount,   $316 million   was held within the United States and   $648 million   was held outside of the United States.  The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase shares of the Company s common stock and support other business needs.  The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs or credit facilities, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper programs and/or access the capital markets.  The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. 
  While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company s foreign cash balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits.  For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States.  The Company has recorded a deferred tax liability for the funds that are available to be repatriated to the United States.  No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings.  The cash that the Company s foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions.  As of   December 31, 2016  , the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely and the basis difference in investments outside of the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided in aggregate was approximately   $23.0 billion  .  As of   December 31, 2016  , management believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States. 
  During   2016  , the Company contributed   $58 million   to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and   $44 million   to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  During   2017  , the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately   $35 million   and   $40 million  , respectively.  The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. 

49 

Table of Contents  

Contractual Obligations 
  The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company s contractual obligations as of   December 31, 2016   under (1) debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company s balance sheet under GAAP.  The amounts presented in the  Other long-term liabilities  line in the table below include   $940 million   of noncurrent gross unrecognized tax benefits and related interest (and do not include   $172 million   of current gross unrecognized tax benefits which are included in the  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  line on the Consolidated Balance Sheet).  However, the timing of the long-term portion of these liabilities is uncertain, and therefore, they have been included in the  More Than 5 Years  column in the table below.  Refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits.  Certain of the Company s acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration.  The table below does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts of any such payments are uncertain.  Refer to   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  for a discussion of other contractual obligations that are not reflected in the table below. 

(a)   
    As described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (b)   
    Amounts do not include interest payments.  Interest on debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. 
               (c)   
    Interest payments on debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2016.  Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. 
               (d)   
    As described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require the Company to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises.  These future costs are not included in the schedule above. 
               (e)   
    Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction. 
               (f)   
    Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self-insurance and litigation claims, postretirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation obligations.  The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. 
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  Guarantees 
  The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of guarantees of the Company as of   December 31, 2016  . 

Guarantees consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds.  These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, insurance providers,  
  
   50 

     Table of Contents  

financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions. 
  Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets.  In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters.  In particular, in connection with the 2016 Fortive Separation and the 2015 split-off of the Company s communications business, Danaher entered into separation and distribution and related agreements pursuant to which Danaher agreed to indemnify the other parties against certain damages and expenses that might occur in the future.  These indemnification obligations cover a variety of liabilities, including, but not limited to, employee, tax and environmental matters.  The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Company s financial statements.  In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third-parties.  In the event any of these third-parties vacate any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.  The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company s financial statements. 
  In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Company s products or services or claims alleging that Company products or services infringe third-party intellectual property.  The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual obligations table above.  Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations. 
  The Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions.  Danaher s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights.  In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding.  While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. 
  Legal Proceedings 
  Refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, refer to  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 
  Management s discussion and analysis of the Company s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. 
  The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements.  Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period-to-period.  For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Acquired Intangibles   The Company s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process research and development and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur.  Refer to Notes 1, 2 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions. 
  
   51 

     Table of Contents  

In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach.  The Company estimates fair value based on multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company s reporting units, in addition to recent market available sale transactions of comparable businesses.  In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected.  In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach.  The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values.  There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment.  
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company had   eight   reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.    Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment.  Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.    As of the date of the   2016   annual impairment test, the carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranged from   $503 million   to approximately   $11.7 billion  .  The Company s annual goodwill impairment analysis in   2016   indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.  The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 70% to approximately 380%.  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values.  Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company s reporting units ranged from approximately 50% to approximately 330%. 
  The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets. 
  If actual results are not consistent with management s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company s financial statements. 
  Contingent Liabilities   As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.  These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims.  In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s financial statements. 
  Revenue Recognition   The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services.  Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company s revenue recognition policies.   
  Although most of the Company s sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or nonstandard terms and conditions.  As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the consideration should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element.  The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold separately or where third-party evidence of pricing is not observable.  The Company s estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements.  The Company also enters into lease  
  
   52 

     Table of Contents  

arrangements with customers, which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases.  Certain of the Company s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. 
  If the Company s judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company s reported revenues in particular periods may be adversely affected.  
  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits   For a description of the Company s pension and other postretirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 10 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors.  If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company s financial statements could be materially affected.  A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $141 million ($88 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $140 million ($102 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of   December 31, 2016  .  A 50 basis point increase in the discount rates used for the plans would have decreased the U.S. net obligation by $131 million ($82 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $140 million ($102 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of   December 31, 2016  . 
  For   2016  , the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plans are   7.0%  , and the Company intends to continue to use an assumption of   7.0%   for   2017  .  This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets.  The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments.  The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in bond funds.  The Company s non-U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan.  The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from   1.1%   to   5.8%  .  If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for   2016   was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for   2016   would have increased $9 million ($6 million on an after-tax basis) and $5 million ($4 million on an after-tax basis), respectively. 
  For a discussion of the Company s   2016   and anticipated   2017   defined benefit pension plan contributions, refer to   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Cash and Cash Requirements . 
  Income Taxes   For a description of the Company s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized which requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies.  Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company s financial statements.  
  The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is  more likely than not  that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires. 
  In addition, certain of the Company s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark (refer to   Results of Operations   Income Taxes  and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws.  However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company s financial statements, including its effective tax rate. 
  An increase in the Company s nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the year ended   December 31, 2016   of   $26 million  . 

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
  For a discussion of the new accounting standards impacting the Company, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   53 

     Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  The information required by this item is included under  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

54 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company.  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
  The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  .  In making this assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework  (2013 framework).  Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of   December 31, 2016  , the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective. 
  The Company completed the acquisition of Cepheid on   November 4, 2016  .  Since the Company has not yet fully incorporated the internal controls and procedures of Cepheid into the Company s internal control over financial reporting, management excluded Cepheid from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  .  Cepheid constituted approximately   10%   of the Company s total assets as of   December 31, 2016   and approximately   1%   of the Company s total revenues for the year then ended. 
  The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  This report dated   February 21, 2017   appears on page 56 of this Form 10-K. 

55 

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation 
  We have audited Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries  internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria).  Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries  management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  As indicated in the accompanying   Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  , management s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Cepheid, which is included in the 2016 consolidated financial statements of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries and constituted approximately   10%   of total assets as of   December 31, 2016   and approximately   1%   of the revenues for the year then ended.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Cepheid.  In our opinion, Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016   based on the COSO criteria. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016   of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries and our report dated   February 21, 2017  , expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  McLean, Virginia 
  February 21, 2017 

56 

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Danaher Corporation 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016  .  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a).  These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Danaher Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated   February 21, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  McLean, Virginia 
  February 21, 2017 

57 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  ($ and shares in millions, except per share amount) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   58 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
  ($ and shares in millions, except per share amounts) 

* 
    Net earnings per share amount does not add due to rounding. 
     See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   59 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  ($ in millions) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

60 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
     ($ and shares in millions) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   61 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  ($ and shares in millions) 

See the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   62 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 1.  BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Business   Danaher Corporation ( Danaher  or the  Company ) designs, manufactures and markets professional, medical, industrial and commercial products and services, which are typically characterized by strong brand names, innovative technology and major market positions.  The Company operates in   four   business segments: Life Sciences; Diagnostics; Dental; and Environmental   Applied Solutions. 
  The Company s Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines.  The segment, through its Pall   Corporation ( Pall )   business, is also a leading provider of filtration, separation and purification technologies to the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical, aerospace, microelectronics and general industrial sectors. 
  The Company s Diagnostics segment offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians  offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. 
  The Company s Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile.  The Company is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and is dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity. 
  The Company s Environmental   Applied Solutions segment products and services help protect important resources and keep global food and water supplies safe.      The Company s water quality business provides instrumentation, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.      The Company s product identification business provides equipment, consumables, software and services for various printing, marking, coding, traceability, packaging, design and color management applications on consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products. 
  Refer to Notes 2 and 3 for a discussion of significant acquisitions and discontinued operations. 
  Accounting Principles   The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ).  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.  All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements also reflect the impact of noncontrolling interests.  Noncontrolling interests do not have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated results of operations, therefore earnings and earnings per share attributable to noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests have been reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses and were insignificant in all periods presented. 
  Use of Estimates   The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  However, uncertainties associated with these estimates exist and actual results may differ materially from these estimates. 
  Cash and Equivalents   The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. 
  Accounts Receivable and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts   All trade accounts, contract and finance receivables are reported on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets adjusted for any write-offs and net of allowances for doubtful accounts.  The allowances for doubtful accounts represent management s best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Company s trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios.  Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net earnings.  The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its portfolios to determine if an impairment has occurred and evaluates the collectability of receivables based on a combination of various financial and qualitative factors that may affect customers  ability to pay, including customers  financial condition, collateral, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience and credit bureau information.  In circumstances where the Company is aware of a specific customer s  
  
   63 

     Table of Contents  

inability to meet its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded against amounts due to reduce the recognized receivable to the amount reasonably expected to be collected.  Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings, amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on previously written-off accounts increase the allowances.  If the financial condition of the Company s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional reserves would be required.  The Company does not believe that accounts receivable represent significant concentrations of credit risk because of the diversified portfolio of individual customers and geographical areas.  The Company recorded   $33 million  ,   $25 million   and   $15 million   of expense associated with doubtful accounts for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Included in the Company s trade accounts receivable and other long-term assets as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015   are   $140 million   and   $139 million   of net aggregate financing receivables, respectively.  All financing receivables are evaluated collectively for impairment due to the homogeneous nature of the portfolio. 
  Inventory Valuation   Inventories include the costs of material, labor and overhead.  Domestic inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market primarily using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method with certain businesses applying the last-in, first-out method ( LIFO ) to value inventory.  Inventories held outside the United States are stated at the lower of cost or market primarily using the FIFO method. 
  Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost.  The provision for depreciation has been computed principally by the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the depreciable assets as follows: 
                   Category 
      
    Useful Life 
      Buildings 
      
    30 years 
      Leased assets and leasehold improvements 
      
    Amortized over the lesser of the economic life of the asset or the term of the lease 
      Machinery and equipment 
      
    3   10 years 
      Customer-leased instruments 
      
    5   7 years 

Estimated useful lives are periodically reviewed and, when appropriate, changes to estimates are made prospectively. 
  Investments   Investments over which the Company has a significant influence but not a controlling interest, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.  Equity investments are recorded at the amount of the Company s initial investment and adjusted each period for the Company s share of the investee s income or loss and dividends paid.  All equity investments are periodically reviewed to determine if declines in fair value below cost basis are other-than-temporary.  Significant and sustained decreases in quoted market prices or a series of historic and projected operating losses by investees are strong indicators of other-than-temporary declines.  If the decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment loss is recorded and the investment is written down to a new carrying value. 
  Other Assets   Other assets principally include noncurrent financing receivables, noncurrent deferred tax assets and other investments. 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The Company s financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, available-for-sale securities, nonqualified deferred compensation plans, obligations under trade accounts payable and short and long-term debt.  Due to their short-term nature, the carrying values for cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable approximate fair value.  Refer to Note 7 for the fair values of the Company s available-for-sale securities and other obligations. 
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   Goodwill and other intangible assets result from the Company s acquisition of existing businesses.  In accordance with accounting standards related to business combinations, goodwill is not amortized, however, certain definite-lived identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, are amortized over their estimated useful lives.  Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized.  In-process research and development ( IPR D ) is initially capitalized at fair value and when the IPR D project is complete, the asset is considered a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life.  If an IPR D project is abandoned, an impairment loss equal to the value of the intangible asset is recorded in the period of abandonment.  The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment.  Refer to Notes 2 and 6 for additional information about the Company s goodwill and other intangible assets. 
  
   64 

     Table of Contents  

Revenue Recognition   As described above, the Company derives revenues primarily from the sale of Life Sciences, Diagnostics, Dental and Environmental   Applied Solutions products and services.  For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectability of the associated fee must be reasonably assured.  The Company s principal terms of sale are FOB Shipping Point, or equivalent, and, as such, the Company primarily records revenue for product sales upon shipment.  Sales arrangements entered with delivery terms that are not FOB Shipping Point are not recognized upon shipment and the delivery criteria for revenue recognition is evaluated based on the associated shipping terms and customer obligations.  If any significant obligation to the customer with respect to a sales transaction remains to be fulfilled following shipment (typically installation or acceptance by the customer), revenue recognition is deferred until such obligations have been fulfilled.  Returns for products sold are estimated and recorded as a reduction of revenue at the time of sale.  Customer allowances and rebates, consisting primarily of volume discounts and other short-term incentive programs, are recorded as a reduction of revenue at the time of sale because these allowances reflect a reduction in the purchase price.  Product returns, customer allowances and rebates are estimated based on historical experience and known trends.  Revenue related to separately priced extended warranty and product maintenance agreements is deferred when appropriate and recognized as revenue over the term of the agreement. 
  Certain of the Company s revenues relate to operating-type lease ( OTL ) arrangements.  Instrument lease revenue for OTL agreements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease, and the costs of customer-leased instruments are recorded within property, plant and equipment in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and depreciated over the instrument s estimated useful life.  The depreciation expense is reflected in cost of sales in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The OTLs are generally not cancellable until after the first   two   years.  Certain of the Company s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the criteria used to evaluate whether the arrangement should be considered an OTL or a  sales-type  lease.  A sales-type lease would result in earlier recognition of instrument revenue as compared to an OTL. 
  Revenues for contractual arrangements consisting of multiple elements (i.e., deliverables) are recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand-alone basis and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company s control.  Certain customer arrangements include multiple elements, typically hardware, installation, training, consulting, services and/or post contract support ( PCS ).  Generally, these elements are delivered within the same reporting period, except PCS or other services, for which revenue is recognized over the service period.  The Company allocates revenue to each element in the arrangement using the selling price hierarchy and based on each element s relative selling price.  The selling price for a deliverable is based on its vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) if available, third-party evidence ( TPE ) if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price ( ESP ) if neither VSOE or TPE is available.  The Company considers relevant internal and external market factors in cases where the Company is required to estimate selling prices.  Allocation of the consideration is determined at the arrangements  inception. 
  Shipping and Handling   Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of sales.  Revenue derived from shipping and handling costs billed to customers is included in sales. 
  Advertising   Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. 
  Research and Development   The Company conducts research and development activities for the purpose of developing new products, enhancing the functionality, effectiveness, ease of use and reliability of the Company s existing products and expanding the applications for which uses of the Company s products are appropriate.  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. 
  Income Taxes   The Company s income tax expense represents the tax liability for the current year, the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year, as well as reserves for unrecognized tax benefits and return to provision adjustments.  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse.  Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Company s tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the Company s tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date.  The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is  more likely than not  that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re- 
  
   65 

     Table of Contents  

evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires.  The Company recognizes potential accrued interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense.  Refer to Note 12 for additional information. 
  Restructuring   The Company periodically initiates restructuring activities to appropriately position the Company s cost base relative to prevailing economic conditions and associated customer demand as well as in connection with certain acquisitions.  Costs associated with restructuring actions can include onetime termination benefits and related charges in addition to facility closure, contract termination and other related activities.  The Company records the cost of the restructuring activities when the associated liability is incurred.  Refer to Note 14 for additional information. 
  Foreign Currency Translation   Exchange rate adjustments resulting from foreign currency transactions are recognized in net earnings, whereas effects resulting from the translation of financial statements are reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders  equity.  Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating outside the United States with a functional currency other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end exchange rates and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average rates.  Net foreign currency transaction gains or losses were not material in any of the years presented. 
  Derivative Financial Instruments   The Company is neither a dealer nor a trader in derivative instruments.  The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative instruments to manage this risk, although the Company s foreign currency-denominated debt partially hedges its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates.  The Company will periodically enter into foreign currency forward contracts not exceeding   12   months to mitigate a portion of its foreign currency exchange risk and forward starting swaps to mitigate interest rate risk related to the Company s debt.  When utilized, the derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at fair value.  To the extent the foreign currency forward contract or forward starting swap qualifies as an effective hedge, changes in fair value are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity.  The Company s use of foreign currency forward contracts and forward starting swaps during   2016   and as of the year then ended was not significant.  Refer to Note 7 for additional information. 
  
   66 

     Table of Contents  

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   Foreign currency translation adjustments are generally not adjusted for income taxes as they relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.  The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component are summarized below ($ in millions):   

            (a)   
    This accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component is included in the computation of net periodic pension and postretirement cost (refer to Notes 10 and 11 for additional details). 
               (b)   
    Included in other income in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings (refer to Note 13 for additional details). 
               (c)   
    This accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component included an income tax impact of   $21 million  .  
     
   67 

     Table of Contents  

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   The Company accounts for stock-based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) and performance stock units ( PSUs ), based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date.  Equity-based compensation expense is recognized net of an estimated forfeiture rate on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award, except that in the case of RSUs, compensation expense is recognized using an accelerated attribution method.  Refer to Note 17 for additional information on the stock-based compensation plans in which certain employees of the Company participate. 
  Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans   The Company measures its pension and postretirement plans  assets and its obligations that determine the respective plan s funded status as of the end of the Company s fiscal year, and recognizes an asset for a plan s overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status in its balance sheet.  Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and reported in comprehensive income (loss).  Refer to Notes 10 and 11 for additional information on the Company s pension and postretirement plans including a discussion of the actuarial assumptions, the Company s policy for recognizing the associated gains and losses and the method used to estimate service and interest cost components. 
  New Accounting Standards     In November 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2016-16,   Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory  , which simplifies the guidance on the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.  The ASU is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods, with early adoption permitted.  Management believes that the new standard will not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 
  In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15,   Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230),   which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice in how cash receipts and cash payments are presented in the statement of cash flows.  The ASU is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.  The amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented.  The Company adopted this standard in the third quarter of 2016.  The adoption of this ASU resulted in the make-whole premiums of   $188 million   related to the early extinguishment of borrowings in the third quarter of 2016 being reflected as a financing activity and the tax benefit related to these payments being reflected as an operating activity in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2016. 
  In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13,   Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,   which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.  The ASU is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.  Management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of the new standard on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 
  In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,   Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718)  , which aims to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification of certain items on the statement of cash flows and accounting for forfeitures.  The ASU is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted.  The Company will adopt this standard in fiscal year 2017.  The ASU will require that the difference between the actual tax benefit realized upon exercise and the tax benefit recorded based on the fair value of the stock award at the time of grant (the  excess tax benefits ) to be reflected as a reduction of the current period provision for income taxes with any shortfall recorded as an increase in the tax provision rather than as a component of changes to additional paid-in capital.  The ASU will also require the excess tax benefit realized be reflected as operating cash flow rather than a financing cash flow.  Had this ASU been adopted at January 1, 2015, the provision for income taxes from continuing operations would have been reduced and operating cash flow from continuing operations would have been increased by   $30 million   and   $66 million   for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  The actual benefit realized in future periods is inherently uncertain and will vary based on the timing and relative value realized for future share-based transactions. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,   Leases (Topic 842)  , which will require, among other items, lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for most leases.  Extensive quantitative and qualitative disclosures, including significant judgments made by management, will be required to provide greater insight into the extent of revenue and expense recognized and expected to be recognized from existing contracts.  The accounting applied by a lessor is largely unchanged from that applied under the current standard.  The standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition approach and provides for certain practical expedients.  The ASU is effective for public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.  Management has not yet completed its assessment of the impact of the new standard on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 
  
   68 

     Table of Contents  

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09,   Reven  ue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  , which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance.  The core principle of Topic 606 is that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  In July 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of the standard by one year which results in the new standard being effective for the Company at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018.  In addition, during March, April, May and December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net),   ASU No. 2016-10,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing,   ASU No. 2016-12,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients   and ASU No. 2016-20,   Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers,   respectively, which clarified the guidance on certain items such as reporting revenue as a principal versus agent, identifying performance obligations, accounting for intellectual property licenses, assessing collectability, presentation of sales taxes, impairment testing for contract costs and disclosure of performance obligations.  The Company plans to adopt the new standard on January 1, 2018 and expects the impact of the new standard on the amount and timing of revenue recognition to be insignificant.  The new standard will require certain costs, primarily commissions on contracts greater than one year in duration, to be capitalized versus expensed currently.  The Company expects to use the modified retrospective method of adoption, reflecting the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard to revenue recognition in the first quarter of 2018. 

NOTE 2.  ACQUISITIONS 
  The Company continually evaluates potential acquisitions that either strategically fit with the Company s existing portfolio or expand the Company s portfolio into a new and attractive business area.  The Company has completed a number of acquisitions that have been accounted for as purchases and have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Company s consolidated financial statements.  This goodwill arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses, the multiple to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers, the competitive nature of the processes by which the Company acquired the businesses, the avoidance of the time and costs which would be required (and the associated risks that would be encountered) to enhance the Company s existing product offerings to key target markets and enter into new and profitable businesses, and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. 
  The Company makes an initial allocation of the purchase price at the date of acquisition based upon its understanding of the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities.  The Company obtains this information during due diligence and through other sources.  In the months after closing, as the Company obtains additional information about these assets and liabilities, including through tangible and intangible asset appraisals, and learns more about the newly acquired business, it is able to refine the estimates of fair value and more accurately allocate the purchase price.  Only items identified as of the acquisition date are considered for subsequent adjustment.  The Company is continuing to evaluate certain pre-acquisition contingencies associated with certain of its   2016   acquisitions and is also in the process of obtaining valuations of certain property, plant and equipment, acquired intangible assets and certain acquisition-related liabilities in connection with these acquisitions.  The Company will make appropriate adjustments to the purchase price allocation prior to completion of the measurement period, as required. 
  The following briefly describes the Company s acquisition activity for the three years ended   December 31, 2016  . 
  On   November 4, 2016  , Copper Merger Sub, Inc., a California corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Cepheid, a California corporation, for   $53.00   per share in cash, for a total purchase price of approximately   $4.0 billion  , net of assumed debt and acquired cash (the  Cepheid Acquisition )  .  Cepheid is a leading global molecular diagnostics company that develops, manufactures and markets accurate and easy to use molecular systems and tests and is now part of the Company s Diagnostics segment.  Cepheid generated revenues of   $539 million   in 2015. 
  The Company financed the Cepheid acquisition price with available cash and proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar and euro-denominated commercial paper.    The Company preliminarily recorded approximately   $2.6 billion   of goodwill related to the Cepheid Acquisition.  As Cepheid is integrated into the Company, the Company expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Cepheid. 
  In addition to the Cepheid Acquisition, during   2016   the Company acquired   seven   businesses for total consideration of   $882 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company s   four   segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   seven   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were   $237 million  .  The Company preliminarily recorded an aggregate of   $478 million   of goodwill related to these acquisitions. 
  
   69 

     Table of Contents  

On August 31, 2015, Pentagon Merger Sub, Inc., a New York corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pall  , a New York corporation, for     $127.20   per share in cash, for a total purchase price of approximately   $13.6 billion  , net of assumed debt of   $417 million   and acquired cash of approximately   $1.2 billion   (the  Pall Acquisition ).  Pall is a leading global provider of filtration, separation and purification solutions that remove contaminants or separate substances from a variety of solids, liquids and gases, and is now part of the Company s Life Sciences segment.  In its fiscal year ended July 31, 2015, Pall generated consolidated revenues of approximately   $2.8 billion  .  Pall serves customers in the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage and medical markets as well as the process technologies, aerospace and microelectronics markets.  The Company preliminarily recorded approximately   $9.6 billion   of goodwill related to the Pall Acquisition. 
  The Company financed the approximately   $13.6 billion   acquisition price of Pall with approximately   $2.5 billion   of available cash, approximately   $8.1 billion   of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of U.S. dollar and euro-denominated commercial paper and    2.7 billion   (approximately   $3.0 billion   based on currency exchange rates as of the date of issuance) of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of euro-denominated senior unsecured notes.  Subsequent to the Pall Acquisition, the Company used the approximately   $2.0 billion   of net proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes and the approximately   CHF 755 million   (  $732 million   based on currency exchange rates as of date of issuance) of net proceeds, including the related premium, from the issuance and sale of Swiss franc-denominated senior unsecured bonds to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Pall Acquisition. 
  In addition to the Pall Acquisition, during 2015 the Company acquired   nine   businesses for total consideration of approximately   $670 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company s   four   segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   nine   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $355 million  .  The Company preliminarily recorded an aggregate of   $285 million   of goodwill related to these acquisitions. 
  In December 2014, the Company completed its tender offer for the outstanding shares of common stock of Nobel Biocare   Holding AG ( Nobel Biocare )   and acquired substantially all of the Nobel Biocare shares, with the remainder of the Nobel Biocare shares acquired in 2015 pursuant to a squeeze-out transaction, for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately   CHF 1.9 billion   (approximately   $1.9 billion   based on exchange rates as of the date the shares of common stock were acquired) including debt assumed and net of cash acquired.  Nobel Biocare had revenues of    567 million   in 2013 (approximately   $780 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2013), and is now part of the Company s Dental segment.    The Company preliminarily recorded approximately   $1.0 billion   of goodwill related to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare.    The Company financed the acquisition of Nobel Biocare from available cash.    
  In addition to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, during 2014 the Company acquired   10   businesses for total consideration of     $978 million   in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company s     four     segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these   10   businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately   $285 million  .  The Company preliminarily recorded an aggregate of   $479 million   of goodwill related to these acquisitions. 
  
   70 

     Table of Contents  

The following summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition ($ in millions): 

The following summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for the individually significant acquisition in   2016   discussed above, and all of the other   2016   acquisitions as a group ($ in millions): 

71 

     Table of Contents  

The following summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for the individually significant acquisition in   2015   discussed above, and all of the other   2015   acquisitions as a group ($ in millions): 

The following summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for the individually significant acquisition in   2014   discussed above, and all of the other   2014   acquisitions as a group ($ in millions): 

During 2016, primarily in connection with the Cepheid Acquisition, the Company incurred   $61 million   of pretax transaction-related costs, primarily banking fees, legal fees, amounts paid to other third-party advisers and change in control costs.  In addition, the Company s earnings for 2016 reflect the impact of additional pretax charges of   $23 million   associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue primarily related to the Cepheid Acquisition. 
  During 2015, in connection with the Pall Acquisition, the Company incurred   $47 million   of pretax transaction-related costs, primarily banking fees, legal fees, amounts paid to other third-party advisers and change in control costs as well as   $11 million   of a pretax curtailment gain resulting from the Company freezing and discontinuing all future accruals to the Pall pension plan, which necessitated a remeasurement of the plan obligations.  In addition, the Company s earnings for 2015 reflect the impact of additional pretax charges of   $91 million   associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue related to the Pall Acquisition and   $20 million   associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory related to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare.   
  During 2014, in connection with the Nobel Biocare acquisition, the Company incurred   $12 million   of pretax transaction related costs, primarily banking fees, legal fees, amounts paid to other third-party advisers and change in control costs.  In addition, the Company s earnings for 2014 reflect the impact of additional pretax charges of   $5 million   associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory related to the Nobel Biocare acquisition.   
  
   72 

     Table of Contents  

Transaction-related costs and acquisition-related fair value adjustments attributable to other acquisitions were not material to   2016  ,   2015  , or   2014   earnings. 
  Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited) 
  The unaudited pro forma information for the periods set forth below gives effect to the   2016   and   2015   acquisitions as if they had occurred as of January 1,   2015  .  The pro forma information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that actually would have been achieved had the acquisitions been consummated as of that time ($ in millions except per share amounts): 

The 2016 unaudited pro forma revenue and earnings set forth above were adjusted to exclude the impact of the nonrecurring acquisition date fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue primarily for the Cepheid Acquisition of   $23 million   pretax and the 2015 unaudited pro forma revenue and earnings set forth above were adjusted to include the impact of these same fair value adjustments as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2015. 
  In addition, the acquisition-related transaction costs and change in control payments of approximately   $61 million   in 2016 associated primarily with the Cepheid Acquisition and   $47 million   in 2015 associated with the Pall Acquisition were excluded from pro forma earnings in 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

NOTE 3.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
  Fortive Corporation Separation 
  On July 2, 2016 (the  Distribution Date ), Danaher completed the separation (the  Separation ) of its former Test   Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business by distributing to Danaher stockholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Fortive   Corporation ( Fortive )  , the entity Danaher incorporated to hold such businesses.    To effect the Separation, Danaher distributed to its stockholders one share of Fortive common stock for every two shares of Danaher common stock outstanding as of June 15, 2016, the record date for the distribution.    Fractional shares of Fortive common stock that otherwise would have been distributed were aggregated and sold into the public market and the proceeds distributed to Danaher stockholders. 
  In preparation for the Separation, in June 2016 Fortive issued approximately   $3.4 billion   in debt securities (refer to Note 9).      The proceeds from these borrowings were used to fund the approximately   $3.0 billion   net cash distributions Fortive made to Danaher prior to the Distribution Date ( Fortive Distribution )  .  Danaher used a portion of the cash distribution proceeds to repay the   $500 million     aggregate principal amount of   2.3%   senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2016 and to redeem approximately   $1.9 billion   in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in August 2016 (consisting of the   Company s   5.625%   senior unsecured notes due 2018,   5.4%   senior unsecured notes due 2019 and   3.9%   senior unsecured notes due 2021   (collectively the  Redeemed Notes ))  .  Danaher also paid an aggregate of   $188 million   in make-whole premiums in connection with the August 2016 redemptions, plus accrued and unpaid interest.    The Company has also used, and intends to use, the balance of the Fortive Distribution to fund certain of the Company s regular, quarterly cash dividends to shareholders.     
  The accounting requirements for reporting the Separation of Fortive as a discontinued operation were met when the Separation was completed.  Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented reflect this business as a discontinued operation.  The Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense and income to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business  net assets to the Company s consolidated net assets.    Fortive had revenues of approximately   $3.0 billion   in 2016 prior to the Separation and approximately   $6.1 billion   in 2015.    
  As a result of the Separation, the Company incurred   $48 million   in Separation-related costs during the year ended     December 31, 2016   which are included in earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  These Separation costs primarily relate to professional fees associated with preparation of regulatory filings and Separation activities within finance, tax, legal and information system functions as well as certain investment banking fees and tax liabilities incurred upon the Separation.    
  In connection with the Separation, Danaher and Fortive entered into various agreements to effect the Separation and provide a framework for their relationship after the Separation, including a transition services agreement, an employee matters  
  
   73 

     Table of Contents  

agreement, a tax matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement and a Danaher Business System ( DBS ) license agreement.  These agreements provide for the allocation between Danaher and Fortive of assets, employees, liabilities and obligations (including investments, property and employee benefits and tax-related assets and liabilities) attributable to periods prior to, at and after Fortive s separation from Danaher and govern certain relationships between Danaher and Fortive after the Separation.  In addition, Danaher is also party to various commercial agreements with Fortive entities.  The amount billed for transition services provided under the above agreements as well as sales and purchases to and from Fortive were not material to the Company s results of operations for the year ended   December 31, 2016  . 
  Communications Business Split-off  
  In July 2015, the Company consummated the split-off of the majority of its former communications business to Danaher shareholders who elected to exchange Danaher shares for ownership interests in the communications business, and the subsequent merger of the communications business with a subsidiary of NetScout   Systems, Inc. ( NetScout )  .  Danaher shareholders who participated in the exchange offer tendered   26 million   shares of Danaher common stock (approximately   $2.3 billion   on the date of tender) and received   62.5 million   shares of NetScout common stock which represented approximately   60%   of the shares of NetScout common stock outstanding following the combination.    
  The accounting requirements for reporting the disposition of the communications business as a discontinued operation were met when the split-off and merger were completed.  Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented reflect this business as discontinued operations.  The Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business  net assets to the Company s consolidated net assets.    The Company recorded an aggregate after-tax gain on the disposition of this business of   $767 million   (including   $6 million   in related income tax benefits), or   $1.08   per diluted share, in its 2015 results in connection with the closing of this transaction representing the value of the   26 million   shares of Company common stock tendered for the communications business in excess of the carrying value of the business  net assets.  The communications business had revenues of   $346 million   in 2015 prior to the disposition and   $760 million   in 2014. 
  The key components of income from both the Fortive and communications businesses from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31 were as follows ($ in millions): 

74 

     Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes the major classes of assets and liabilities of the Fortive-related discontinued operations that were included in the Company s accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions): 

NOTE 4.  INVENTORIES 
  The classes of inventory as of   December 31   are summarized as follows ($ in millions): 

As of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , the difference between inventories valued at LIFO and the value of that same inventory if the FIFO method had been used was not significant.  The liquidation of LIFO inventory did not have a significant impact on the Company s results of operations in any period presented. 

NOTE 5.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
  The classes of property, plant and equipment as of   December 31   are summarized as follows ($ in millions): 

NOTE 6.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
  As discussed in Note 2, goodwill arises from the purchase price for acquired businesses exceeding the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired less assumed liabilities and noncontrolling interests.  Management assesses the goodwill of each of its reporting units for impairment at least annually at the beginning of the fourth quarter and as  triggering  events occur that indicate that it is more likely than not that an impairment exists.  The Company elected to bypass the optional qualitative  
  
   75 

     Table of Contents  

goodwill assessment allowed by applicable accounting standards and performed a quantitative impairment test for all reporting units as this was determined to be the most effective method to assess for impairment across a large spectrum of reporting units.   
  The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market approach, based on current trading multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company s reporting units, in addition to recent available market sale transactions of comparable businesses.  In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach.  If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting unit s goodwill has been impaired. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company had   eight   reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.    As of the date of the   2016   annual impairment test, the carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranged from   $503 million   to approximately   $11.7 billion  .    No   goodwill impairment charges were recorded for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   and no  triggering  events have occurred subsequent to the performance of the   2016   annual impairment test.  The factors used by management in its impairment analysis are inherently subject to uncertainty.  If actual results are not consistent with management s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. 
  The following is a rollforward of the Company s goodwill by segment ($ in millions):     

(a)   
    This adjustment is primarily related to finalization of the Nobel Biocare purchase price adjustments. 
               (b)   
    This adjustment is primarily related to finalization of the Pall purchase price adjustments. 
     Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their legal or estimated useful life.  The following summarizes the gross carrying value and accumulated amortization for each major category of intangible asset as of December 31 ($ in millions):    

76 

     Table of Contents  

During   2016  , the Company acquired finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of customer relationships, with a weighted average life of   14   years.  Refer to Note 2 for additional information on the intangible assets acquired. 
  Total intangible amortization expense in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was   $583 million  ,   $397 million   and   $269 million  , respectively.  Based on the intangible assets recorded as of   December 31, 2016  , amortization expense is estimated to be   $649 million   during   2017  ,   $633 million   during   2018  ,   $625 million   during   2019  ,   $620 million   during   2020   and   $608 million   during   2021  . 

NOTE 7.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
  Accounting standards define fair value based on an exit price model, establish a framework for measuring fair value where the Company s assets and liabilities are required to be carried at fair value and provide for certain disclosures related to the valuation methods used within a valuation hierarchy as established within the accounting standards.  This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows.  Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, or other observable characteristics for the asset or liability, including interest rates, yield curves and credit risks, or inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data through correlation.  Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on the Company s assumptions.  A financial asset or liability s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. 
  A summary of financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows ($ in millions): 

Available-for-sale securities, which are included in other long-term assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, are either measured at fair value using quoted market prices in an active market or if they are not traded on an active market are valued at quoted prices reported by investment brokers and dealers based on the underlying terms of the security and comparison to similar securities traded on an active market. 
  The Company has established nonqualified deferred compensation programs that permit officers, directors and certain management employees to defer a portion of their compensation, on a pretax basis, until after their termination of employment (or board service, as applicable).  All amounts deferred under such plans are unfunded, unsecured obligations of the Company and are presented as a component of the Company s compensation and benefits accrual included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 8).  Participants may choose among alternative earnings rates for the amounts they defer, which are primarily based on investment options within the Company s 401(k) program (except that the earnings rates for amounts deferred by the Company s directors and amounts contributed unilaterally by the Company are entirely based on changes in the value of the Company s common stock).  Changes in the deferred compensation liability under these programs are recognized based on changes in the fair value of the participants  accounts, which are based on the applicable earnings rates. 
  
   77 

     Table of Contents  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company s financial instruments as of December 31 were as follows ($ in millions): 

As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , available-for-sale securities were categorized as Level 1 and Level 2, as indicated above, and short and long-term borrowings were categorized as Level 1. 
  The fair value of long-term borrowings was based on quoted market prices.  The difference between the fair value and the carrying amounts of long-term borrowings (other than the Company s Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (the  LYONs )) is attributable to changes in market interest rates and/or the Company s credit ratings subsequent to the incurrence of the borrowing.  In the case of the LYONs, differences in the fair value from the carrying value are attributable to changes in the price of the Company s common stock due to the LYONs  conversion features.  The fair values of borrowings with original maturities of one year or less, as well as cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, net and trade accounts payable approximate their carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 
  Refer to Note 10 for information related to the fair value of the Company sponsored defined benefit pension plan assets. 

NOTE 8.  ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LIABILITIES 
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities as of   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

78 

Table of Contents  

NOTE 9.  FINANCING 
  The components of the Company s debt as of   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

Debt discounts and debt issuance costs totaled   $25 million   and   $9 million   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, and have been netted against the aggregate principal amounts of the related debt in the components of debt table above. 
  Commercial Paper Programs and Credit Facilities 
  In 2015, the Company entered into a   $4.0 billion   unsecured multi-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on July 10, 2020, subject to a   one  -year extension option at the request of the Company with the consent of the lenders (the  5-Year Credit Facility ).  The Company also entered into a   $7.0 billion   364-day unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expired in July 2016 (  no   borrowings were outstanding under the facility at any time) to provide additional liquidity support for issuances under the Company s U.S. and euro-denominated commercial paper programs, the proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the purchase price for the Pall Acquisition.  On October 24, 2016, the Company again expanded its borrowing capacity by entering into a   $3.0 billion   364-day unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on October 23, 2017 (the  364-Day Facility  and together with the 5-Year Credit Facility, the  Credit Facilities ), to provide additional liquidity support for issuances under the Company s U.S. and euro-denominated commercial paper programs.  The increase in the size of the Company s commercial paper programs provided necessary  
  
   79 

     Table of Contents  

capacity for the Company to use proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper to fund the purchase price for the Cepheid Acquisition, as discussed in more detail below.   
  Under the Company s U.S. and euro-denominated commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes.  The notes are typically issued at a discount from par, generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR.  The Credit Facilities provide liquidity support for issuances under the Company s commercial paper programs, and can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes.  The availability of the Credit Facilities as standby liquidity facilities to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Company s commercial paper programs.  The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facilities to amounts that would leave sufficient available borrowing capacity under such facilities to allow the Company to borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures.  As commercial paper obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings.  As of   December 31, 2016  , borrowings outstanding under the Company s U.S. and euro commercial paper programs had a weighted average annual interest rate of   0.3%   and a weighted average remaining maturity of approximately   37 days  .  The Company has classified approximately   $4.0 billion   of its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs as of   December 31, 2016   as long-term debt in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the 5-Year Credit Facility referenced above, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. 
  Under the Credit Facilities, borrowings (other than bid loans under the 5-Year Credit Facility) bear interest at a rate equal to (at the Company s option) either (1) a LIBOR-based rate (the  LIBOR-Based Rate ), or (2) the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate plus 0.5%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the LIBOR-Based Rate plus   1%  , plus in each case a specified margin that, in the case of the 5-Year Credit Facility, varies according to the Company s long-term debt credit rating.  In addition to certain initial fees the Company paid with respect to the 5-Year Credit Facility at inception of the facility, the Company is obligated to pay an annual commitment or facility fee under each Credit Facility that, in the case of the 5-Year Credit Facility, varies according to the Company s long-term debt credit rating.  Each of the Credit Facilities requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the respective facility) of   0.65   to 1.00 or less, and also contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants.  As of   December 31, 2016  ,   no   borrowings were outstanding under either of the Credit Facilities and the Company was in compliance with all covenants under each facility.  The nonperformance by any member of either Credit Facility syndicate would reduce the maximum capacity of such Credit Facility by such member s commitment amount. 
  The Company s ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of the Company s credit rating and market conditions.  Any downgrade in the Company s credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Company s commercial paper program and the 5-Year Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Company s ability to issue commercial paper.  If the Company s access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a credit downgrade, change in market conditions or otherwise, the Company expects it would rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and the Credit Facilities to provide short-term funding.  In such event, the cost of borrowings under the Credit Facilities could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings. 
  In addition to the Credit Facilities, the Company has also entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit. 
  
   80 

     Table of Contents  

Long-Term Indebtedness 
  The following summarizes the key terms for the Company s long-term debt as of   December 31, 2016  : 

(1)   
    The net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, of approximately    2.7 billion   (approximately   $3.0 billion   based on currency exchange rates as of the date of issuance) from these notes were used to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Pall Acquisition.  
               (2)   
    The net proceeds, including the related premium, and after underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, of approximately   CHF 755 million   (  $732 million   based on currency exchange rates as of date of issuance) from these bonds were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Pall Acquisition.  
               (3)   
    The net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, of approximately   $2.0 billion   from these notes were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Pall Acquisition. 
               (4)   
    The net proceeds, after offering expenses, of approximately    29.9 billion   (approximately   $262 million   based on currency exchange rates as of the date of issuance) from these notes were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper borrowings issued to finance the Pall Acquisition.  
               (5)   
    In connection with the Pall Acquisition, the Company acquired senior unsecured notes previously issued by Pall with an aggregate principal amount of   $375 million  .  In accordance with accounting for business combinations, the Assumed Pall Notes were recorded at their fair value of   $417 million   on the date of acquisition and for accounting purposes, interest charges on these notes recorded in the Company s Consolidated Statement of Earnings reflect an effective interest rate of approximately   2.9%   per year.  
     LYONs 
  In 2001, the Company issued   $830 million   (value at maturity) in LYONs.  The net proceeds to the Company were   $505 million  , of which approximately   $100 million   was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.  The LYONs originally carry a yield to maturity of   2.375%   (with contingent interest payable as described below).  Pursuant to the terms of the indenture that governs the Company s LYONs, effective as of the record date of the distribution of the Fortive shares, the conversion ratio of the LYONs was adjusted so that each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity may be converted into   38.1998   shares of Danaher common stock at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. 
  
   81 

     Table of Contents  

During the year ended   December 31, 2016  , holders of certain of the Company s LYONs converted such LYONs into an aggregate of approximately   250 thousand   shares of the Company s common stock, par value   $0.01   per share.  The Company s deferred tax liability associated with the book and tax basis difference in the converted LYONs of   $3 million   was transferred to additional paid-in capital as a result of the conversions. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , an aggregate of approximately   21 million   shares of the Company s common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs.  As of   December 31, 2016  , the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion.  The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. 
  Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company pays contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six-month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals   120%   or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON.  The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either   0.0315%   of the bonds  average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the cash dividend paid on Danaher s common stock during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON.  The Company paid   $1 million  ,   $1 million   and   $2 million   of contingent interest on the LYONs for each of the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively.  Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. 
  Long-Term Indebtedness Related to the Fortive Separation 
  In June 2016, the Company received net cash distributions of approximately   $3.0 billion   from Fortive as consideration for the Company s contribution of assets to Fortive in connection with the Separation.  Fortive financed these cash payments through issuance of approximately   $3.4 billion   of debt, consisting of   $500 million   aggregate principal amount of borrowings under a three-year, senior unsecured term loan facility with variable interest rates (the  Term Loan Facility ),   $393 million   of commercial paper borrowings supported by a five-year,   $1.5 billion   senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the  Revolving Credit Facility  and together with the Term Loan Facility the  Fortive Credit Facilities ),   $300 million   aggregate principal amount of   1.8%   senior unsecured notes due 2019,   $750 million   aggregate principal amount of   2.35%   senior unsecured notes due 2021,   $900 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.15%   senior unsecured notes due 2026 and   $550 million   aggregate principal amount of   4.3%   senior unsecured notes due 2046 (collectively, the  Fortive Debt ).  Danaher initially guaranteed the Fortive Debt, and the guarantee terminated effective as of the Distribution Date.  As of July 2, 2016 in connection with the Separation, the Fortive Debt was transferred to Fortive and is no longer reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements.  
  2016 Long-Term Debt Repayments 
  The Company used a portion of the proceeds from the Fortive Distribution to repay the   $500 million   aggregate principal amount of 2016 Notes that matured in June 2016 and to redeem approximately   $1.9 billion   in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in August 2016 (consisting of the Redeemed Notes).  Danaher also paid an aggregate of   $188 million   in make-whole premiums in connection with the August 2016 redemptions, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The payment of these make-whole premiums, net of certain deferred gains of   $9 million  , are reflected as a loss on early extinguishment of borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  The Company has used and intends to use the balance of the cash proceeds it received from Fortive to fund certain of the Company s regular, quarterly cash dividends to shareholders.  
  The Company repaid the   CHF 120 million   aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Bonds upon their maturity in October 2016 using available cash. 
  Covenants and Redemption Provisions Applicable to Notes 
  With respect to the 2020 Assumed Pall Notes, the 2019, 2022 and 2025 Euronotes and the 2018, 2020, 2025 and 2045 U.S. Notes, at any time prior to the applicable maturity date (or in certain cases three months prior to the maturity date), the Company may redeem the applicable series of notes in whole or in part, by paying the principal amount and the  make-whole  premium specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  With respect to each of the 2017, 2023 and 2028 CHF Bonds at any time after   85%   or more of the applicable bonds have been redeemed or purchased and canceled, the Company may redeem some or all of the remaining bonds for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.  With respect to the 2017, 2019, 2022 and 2025 Euronotes and the 2017, 2023 and 2028 CHF Bonds, the Company may redeem such notes and bonds upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws, or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the bonds to be redeemed. 
  
   82 

     Table of Contents  

If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to any of the 2020 Assumed Pall Notes, the 2017, 2019, 2022 and 2025 Euronotes, the 2018, 2020, 2025 and 2045 U.S. Notes or the 2017, 2023 and 2028 CHF Bonds, each holder of such notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of such notes and bonds at a purchase price equal to   101%   of the principal amount of the notes and bonds, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  A change of control triggering event means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event, each as defined in the applicable indenture or comparable governing document.  Except in connection with a change of control triggering event, the Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt. 
  The respective indentures under which the above-described notes and bonds were issued contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions.  None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Company s operations and as of   December 31, 2016  , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 
  Other 
  The Company s minimum principal payments for the next five years are as follows ($ in millions): 

The Company made interest payments of   $212 million  ,   $126 million   and   $118 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 

NOTE 10.  PENSION BENEFIT PLANS 
  The Company has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans which cover certain of its U.S. employees.  During 2012, all remaining benefit accruals under the U.S. plans ceased.  The Company also has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans which cover certain of its non-U.S. employees, and under certain of these plans, benefit accruals continue.  In general, the Company s policy is to fund these plans based on considerations relating to legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. 
  
   83 

     Table of Contents  

The following sets forth the funded status of the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of the most recent actuarial valuations using measurement dates of December 31 ($ in millions): 

Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at date of measurement: 

Components of net periodic pension cost (benefit): 

Net periodic pension (benefits) costs are included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 
  
   84 

     Table of Contents  

Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension cost (benefit) at date of measurement: 

The discount rate reflects the market rate on   December 31   for high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to the Company s benefit obligations and is subject to change each year.  For non-U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment-grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan.  During 2016, the Company updated the mortality assumptions used to estimate the projected benefit obligation to reflect updated mortality tables. 
  Effective December 31, 2015, the Company changed its estimate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for its U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  Previously, the Company estimated the service and interest cost components utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation.  The new estimate utilizes a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows.  The new estimate provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and their corresponding spot rates.  The change does not affect the measurement of the Company s U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and it is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle, which is applied prospectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2016, the change in estimate reduced U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement net periodic benefit plan cost by   $25 million   when compared to the prior methodology. 
  Following the Pall Acquisition, the Company froze and discontinued all future accruals to the Pall pension plan, which necessitated a remeasurement of the plan obligations and resulted in a curtailment gain of   $11 million   (  $9 million  , net of tax) in 2015. 
  Included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of   December 31, 2016   are the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost: unrecognized prior service credits of   $2 million   (  $1 million  , net of tax) and unrecognized actuarial losses of approximately   $1.0 billion   (  $649 million  , net of tax).  The unrecognized losses and prior service credits, net, is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined projected benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets less accrued pension costs as of   December 31, 2016  .  The prior service credits and actuarial losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and expected to be recognized in net periodic pension costs during the year ending   December 31, 2017   is   $0.3 million   (  $0.2 million  , net of tax) and   $34 million   (  $22 million  , net of tax), respectively.  No plan assets are expected to be returned to the Company during the year ending   December 31, 2017  . 
  Selection of Expected Rate of Return on Assets 
  For the year ended   December 31, 2016  , the Company used an expected long-term rate of return assumption of   7.0%   for its U.S. defined benefit pension plan while for the years ended   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Company used an expected long-term rate of return assumption of   7.5%   for its U.S. defined benefit pension plan.  The Company intends to use an expected long-term rate of return assumption of   7.0%   for   2017   for its U.S. plan.  This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan, and is based primarily on broad, publicly traded equity and fixed-income indices and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and investment management.  Long-term rate of return on asset assumptions for the non-U.S. plans were determined on a plan-by-plan basis based on the composition of assets and ranged from   1.1%   to   5.8%   and   1.1%   to   6.0%   in   2016   and   2015  , respectively, with a weighted average rate of return assumption of   4.1%   and   3.9%   in   2016   and   2015  , respectively.   
  Plan Assets 
  The U.S. plan s goal is to maintain between   60%   and   70%   of its assets in equity portfolios, which are invested in individual equity securities or funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments, such as venture capital funds and partnerships.  Asset holdings are periodically rebalanced when equity holdings are outside this range.  The balance of the U.S. plan asset portfolio is invested in bond funds, real estate funds, various absolute and real return funds and private equity funds.  Non-U.S. plan assets are invested in various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan.  The value of the plan assets directly affects the funded status of the Company s pension plans recorded in the consolidated financial statements. 
  
   85 

     Table of Contents  

The Company has some investments that are valued using Net Asset Value ( NAV ) as the practical expedient.  In addition, some of the investments valued using NAV as the practical expedient have limits on their redemption to monthly, quarterly, semiannually or annually and require up to   90   days prior written notice.  These investments valued using NAV consist of mutual funds, common collective trusts, venture capital funds, partnerships, and other private investments, which allow the Company to allocate investments across a broad array of types of funds and diversify the portfolio. 
  The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets for both the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of   December 31, 2016  , by asset category were as follows ($ in millions): 

(a)   
    The fair value amounts presented in the table above are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the total plan assets. 
     
   86 

     Table of Contents  

The fair values of the Company s pension plan assets for both the U.S. and non-U.S. plans as of   December 31, 2015  , by asset category were as follows ($ in millions): 

(a)   
    The fair value amounts presented in the table above are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the total plan assets. 
     Preferred stock and common stock traded on an active market, as well as mutual funds are valued at the quoted closing price reported on the active market on which the individual securities are traded.  Preferred stock, common stock, corporate bonds, U.S. government securities and mutual funds that are not traded on an active market are valued at quoted prices reported by investment brokers and dealers based on the underlying terms of the security and comparison to similar securities traded on an active market. 
  Common/collective trusts are valued based on the plan s interest, represented by investment units, in the underlying investments held within the trust that are traded in an active market by the trustee. 
  Venture capital, partnerships and other private investments are valued using the NAV based on the information provided by the asset fund managers, which reflects the plan s share of the fair value of the net assets of the investment.  Depending on the nature of the assets, the underlying investments are valued using a combination of either discounted cash flows, earnings and market multiples, third-party appraisals or through reference to the quoted market prices of the underlying investments held by the venture, partnership or private entity where available.  Valuation adjustments reflect changes in operating results, financial condition, or prospects of the applicable portfolio company. 
  The methods described above may produce a fair value estimate that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.  Furthermore, while the Company believes the valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with the methods used by other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date. 
  Expected Contributions 
  During   2016  , the Company contributed   $58 million   to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and   $44 million   to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  During   2017  , the Company s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately   $35 million   and   $40 million  , respectively. 
  
   87 

     Table of Contents  

The following sets forth benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to be paid by the plans in the periods indicated ($ in millions): 

Other Matters 
  Substantially all employees not covered by defined benefit plans are covered by defined contribution plans, which generally provide for Company funding based on a percentage of compensation. 
  A limited number of the Company s subsidiaries participate in multiemployer defined benefit and contribution plans, primarily outside of the United States, that require the Company to periodically contribute funds to the plan.  The risks of participating in a multiemployer plan differ from the risks of participating in a single-employer plan in the following respects: (1) assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers, (2) if a participating employer ceases contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be required to be borne by the remaining participating employers and (3) if the Company elects to stop participating in the plan, the Company may be required to pay the plan an amount based on the unfunded status of the plan.  None of the multiemployer plans in which the Company s subsidiaries participate are considered to be quantitatively or qualitatively significant, either individually or in the aggregate.  In addition, contributions made to these plans during   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   were not considered significant, either individually or in the aggregate. 
  Expense for all defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans amounted to   $177 million  ,   $154 million   and   $132 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 

NOTE 11.  OTHER POSTRETIREMENT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
  In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for some of its retired employees in the United States.  Certain employees may become eligible for these benefits as they reach normal retirement age while working for the Company. 
  The following sets forth the funded status of the domestic plans as of the most recent actuarial valuations using measurement dates of December 31 ($ in millions): 

88 

     Table of Contents  

As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  ,   $158 million   and   $175 million  , respectively, of the total underfunded status of the plan was recognized as long-term accrued postretirement liability since it was not expected to be funded within one year. 
  Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at date of measurement: 

Effect of a one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates: 
                             ($ in millions) 
    1% Increase 
      
    1% Decrease 
      Effect on the total of service and interest cost components 
    $ 
    0.3 

$ 
    (0.3 
    ) 
      Effect on postretirement medical benefit obligation 
    5.3 

(4.7 
    ) 

The medical trend rate used to determine the postretirement benefit obligation was   6.5%   for   2016  .  The rate decreases gradually to an ultimate rate of   4.5%   in 2037 and remains at that level thereafter.  The trend rate is a significant factor in determining the amounts reported. 
  Components of net periodic benefit cost: 

Net periodic benefit costs are included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 
  Included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of   December 31, 2016   are the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost: unrecognized prior service credits of   $24 million   (  $15 million  , net of tax) and unrecognized actuarial losses of   $14 million   (  $9 million  , net of tax).  The unrecognized losses and prior service credits, net, is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined projected benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets less accrued benefit costs as of   December 31, 2016  .  The prior service credits and actuarial losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit costs during the year ending   December 31, 2017   is   $3 million   (  $2 million  , net of tax) and   $0.1 million   (  $0.1 million  , net of tax), respectively. 
  The following sets forth benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, expected to be paid in the periods indicated ($ in millions): 

89 

Table of Contents  

NOTE 12.  INCOME TAXES  
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

The provision for income taxes from continuing operations for the years ended   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

90 

     Table of Contents  

During 2015 the Company adopted ASU 2015-17,   Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes   ( ASU 2015-17 ) on a prospective basis; therefore, all deferred tax assets and liabilities have been classified as noncurrent in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Noncurrent deferred tax assets and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities are included in other assets and other long-term liabilities, respectively, in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Net deferred income tax liabilities for discontinued operations for the year ended December 31,   2015   was   $87 million   and is reflected in current assets, discontinued operations and other long-term liabilities, discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of   December 31   were as follows ($ in millions): 

The Company evaluates the future realizability of tax credits and loss carryforwards considering the anticipated future earnings of the Company s subsidiaries as well as tax planning strategies in the associated jurisdictions.  Deferred taxes associated with U.S. entities consist of net deferred tax liabilities of approximately   $2.5 billion   and   $2.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively.  Deferred taxes associated with non-U.S. entities consist of net deferred tax liabilities of   $374 million   and   $367 million   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively.  During   2016  , the Company s valuation allowance increased by   $92 million  ,   $21 million   due to acquisitions and the remainder due to certain tax benefits triggered in 2016 that are not expected to be realized. 
  The effective income tax rate from continuing operations for the years ended   December 31   varies from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate as follows: 

91 

     Table of Contents  

The Company s effective tax rate for each of   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of   35.0%   due principally to the Company s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. 
             
    The effective tax rate of   17.5%   in   2016   includes   350   basis points of net tax benefits from permanent foreign exchange losses and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation and audit settlements, partially offset by income tax expense related to repatriation of earnings and legal entity realignments associated with the Separation and changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. 
                
    The effective tax rate of   14.4%   in   2015   includes   290   basis points of net tax benefits from permanent foreign exchange losses, releases of valuation allowances related to foreign operating losses and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation, partially offset by changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. 
                
    The effective tax rate of   21.5%   in   2014   includes   250   basis points of tax expense for audit settlements in various jurisdictions, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation. 
     The Company made income tax payments related to both continuing and discontinued operations of   $767 million  ,   $584 million   and   $569 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively.  Current income taxes payable related to both continuing and discontinued operations has been reduced by   $99 million  ,   $147 million  , and   $82 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, for tax deductions attributable to stock-based compensation, of which, the excess tax benefit over the amount recorded for financial reporting purposes for both continuing and discontinued operations was   $50 million  ,   $88 million   and   $50 million  , respectively.  The excess tax benefits realized have been recorded as increases to additional paid-in capital and are reflected as a financing cash inflow in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  Included in deferred income taxes related to continuing operations as of   December 31, 2016   are tax benefits for U.S. and non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards totaling   $757 million   (  $240 million   of which the Company does not expect to realize and have corresponding valuation allowances)  .  Certain of the losses can be carried forward indefinitely and others can be carried forward to various dates from   2017   through 2036.  In addition, the Company had general business and foreign tax credit carryforwards related to continuing operations of   $339 million   (  $24 million   of which the Company does not expect to realize and have corresponding valuation allowances)   as of   December 31, 2016  , which can be carried forward to various dates from   2017   to 2025.  In addition, as of   December 31, 2016  , the Company had   $42 million   of valuation allowances related to other deferred tax asset balances that are not more likely than not of being realized. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , gross unrecognized tax benefits related to continuing operations totaled   $992 million   (  $933 million  , net of the impact of   $179 million   of indirect tax benefits offset by   $120 million   associated with potential interest and penalties).  As of   December 31, 2015  , gross unrecognized tax benefits related to both continuing and discontinued operations totaled   $990 million   (  $905 million  , net of the impact of   $233 million   of indirect tax benefits offset by   $148 million   associated with potential interest and penalties).  The Company recognized approximately   $47 million  ,   $39 million   and   $44 million   in potential interest and penalties related to both continuing and discontinued operations associated with uncertain tax positions during   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively.  To the extent unrecognized tax benefits (including interest and penalties) are not assessed with respect to uncertain tax positions, approximately   $933 million   would be reduced and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision in future periods.  Unrecognized tax benefits and associated accrued interest and penalties are included in taxes, income and other accrued expenses as detailed in Note 8. 
  
   92 

     Table of Contents  

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding amounts accrued for potential interest and penalties related to both continuing and discontinued operations, is as follows ($ in millions): 

The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the United States federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.  The countries in which the Company has a material presence that have significantly lower statutory tax rates than the United States include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  The Company s ability to obtain a tax benefit from lower statutory tax rates outside of the United States depends on its levels of taxable income in these foreign countries and the amount of foreign earnings which are indefinitely reinvested in those countries.  The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company s taxable income. 
  The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities.  The   Internal Revenue Service ( IRS )   has completed substantially all of the examinations of the Company s federal income tax returns through 2010 and is currently examining certain of the Company s federal income tax returns for 2011 through 2013.  In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2004 through 2015. 
  Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company s subsidiaries.  On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority ( SKAT ) totaling approximately     DKK 1.4 billion   (approximately   $195 million   based on exchange rates as of   December 31, 2016  )   including interest through December 31, 2016, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company s subsidiaries for the years 2004-2009.  The Company is currently in discussions with SKAT and anticipates receiving an assessment for years 2010-2012 totaling approximately   DKK 814 million   (approximately   $115 million   based on exchange rates as of   December 31, 2016  )  .    Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and is vigorously defending its positions.  The Company appealed these assessments with the National Tax Tribunal in 2014 and intends on pursuing this matter through the European Court of Justice should this appeal be unsuccessful.  The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company s financial statements, including its effective tax rate. 
  As previously disclosed, German tax authorities had raised issues related to the deductibility and taxability of interest accrued by certain of the Company s subsidiaries.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the German tax authorities to resolve these open matters through 2014.  The Company recorded    49 million   (approximately   $60 million   based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) of expense for taxes and interest related to this settlement during the fourth quarter of 2014. 
  Management estimates that it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits related to continuing operations may be reduced by approximately   $250 million   within 12 months as a result of resolution of worldwide tax matters, payments of tax audit settlements and/or statute expirations. 
  The Company operates in various non-U.S. jurisdictions where income tax incentives and rulings have been granted for specific periods of time.  In Switzerland, the Company has various tax rulings and tax holiday arrangements which reduce the overall effective tax rate of the Company.  The tax holidays expire between 2018 and 2020.  In Singapore, the Company operates under various tax incentive agreements that provide for reduced tax rates.  Subject to the Company satisfying certain requirements, the agreements expire in the years 2019 and 2022.  The Company has satisfied the conditions enumerated in  
  
   93 

     Table of Contents  

these agreements to date.  Included in the consolidated financial statements are tax benefits of   $61 million  ,   $33 million  , and   $16 million   (or   $0.09  ,   $0.05   and   $0.02   per diluted share) for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, from these rulings and tax holidays. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company held   $648 million   of cash and cash equivalents outside of the United States.  While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company s foreign cash balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits.  For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States.  A deferred tax liability has been accrued for the funds that are available to be repatriated to the United States.  No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings.  The cash that the Company s foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions.  As of   December 31, 2016  , the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely and the basis difference in investments outside of the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately   $23.0 billion  . 

NOTE 13.  NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE)  
  The Company received   $265 million   of cash proceeds from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2016.  The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of   $223 million   (  $140 million   after-tax or   $0.20   per diluted share). 
  In the third quarter of 2016, the Company paid   $188 million   of make-whole premiums associated with the early extinguishment of the Redeemed Notes.  The Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of these borrowings, net of certain deferred gains, of   $179 million   (  $112 million   after-tax or   $0.16   per diluted share). 
  During   2015  , the Company received cash proceeds of   $43 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of   $12 million   (  $8 million   after-tax or   $0.01   per diluted share). 
  During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of   $167 million   from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of   $123 million   (  $77 million   after-tax or   $0.11   per diluted share). 

NOTE 14.  RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER RELATED CHARGES  
  During   2016  , the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other related charges totaling   $152 million  .  Substantially all restructuring activities initiated in   2016   were completed by   December 31, 2016   resulting in   $111 million   of employee severance and related charges,   $30 million   of facility exit and other related charges and   $11 million   related to an impairment of a trade name within the Dental segment.  The Company expects substantially all cash payments associated with remaining termination benefits will be paid during   2017  .  During   2015  , the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other related charges totaling   $98 million  .  Substantially all planned restructuring activities related to the   2015   plans were completed by December 31,   2015   resulting in approximately   $81 million   of employee severance and related charges and   $17 million   of facility exit and other related charges.  During   2014  , the Company recorded pretax restructuring and other related charges totaling   $102 million  .  Substantially all planned restructuring activities related to the   2014   plans were completed by December 31,   2014   resulting in approximately   $79 million   of employee severance and related charges and   $23 million   of facility exit and other related charges. 
  The nature of the Company s restructuring and related activities initiated in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   were broadly consistent throughout the Company s reportable segments and focused on improvements in operational efficiency through targeted workforce reductions and facility consolidations and closures.  These costs were incurred to position the Company to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner, and taking into consideration broad economic uncertainties. 
  In conjunction with the closing of facilities, certain inventory was written off as unusable in future operating locations.  This inventory consisted primarily of component parts and raw materials, which were either redundant to inventory at the facilities being merged or were not economically feasible to relocate since the inventory was purchased to operate on equipment and tooling which was not being relocated.  In addition, asset impairment charges have been recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of the long-lived assets that will be sold or disposed of to their estimated fair values.  Charges for the asset impairment reduce the carrying amount of the long-lived assets to their estimated salvage value in connection with the decision to dispose of such assets. 
  
   94 

     Table of Contents  

Restructuring and other related charges recorded for the years ended December 31 by segment were as follows ($ in millions): 

The table below summarizes the Company s accrual balance and utilization by type of restructuring cost associated with the   2016   and   2015   actions ($ in millions): 

The restructuring and other related charges incurred during   2016   include cash charges of   $140 million   and   $12 million   of noncash charges.  The restructuring and other related charges incurred during   2015   and   2014   include cash charges of   $94 million   and   $92 million   and   $4 million   and   $10 million   of noncash charges, respectively.  These charges are reflected in the following captions in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings ($ in millions): 

NOTE 15.  LEASES AND COMMITMENTS 
  The Company s operating leases extend for varying periods of time up to   20   years and, in some cases, contain renewal options that would extend existing terms beyond   20   years.  Total rent expense for all operating leases was   $220 million  ,   $209 million   and   $181 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively.   
  The Company s future minimum rental payments for all operating leases having initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows ($ in millions): 

The Company generally accrues estimated warranty costs at the time of sale.  In general, manufactured products are warranted against defects in material and workmanship when properly used for their intended purpose, installed correctly, and appropriately maintained.  Warranty periods depend on the nature of the product and range from   90   days up to the life of the product.  The amount of the accrued warranty liability is determined based on historical information such as past experience,  
  
   95 

     Table of Contents  

product failure rates or number of units repaired, estimated cost of material and labor, and in certain instances estimated property damage.  The accrued warranty liability is reviewed on a quarterly basis and may be adjusted as additional information regarding expected warranty costs becomes known. 
  The following is a rollforward of the Company s accrued warranty liability ($ in millions): 

NOTE 16.  LITIGATION AND CONTINGENCIES 
  The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  These matters primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Company s products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture-related matters, as well as regulatory investigations or enforcement.  The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses.  Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive, consequential and/or compensatory damages, as well as injunctive relief.  Based upon the Company s experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe it is reasonably possible that any amounts it may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of its reserves as of   December 31, 2016   will have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. 
  While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers  compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors  and officers  liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover certain of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses.  For general, products and property liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self-insured retention.  In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third-parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. 
  The Company records a liability in the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued.  If a loss does not meet the known or probable level but is reasonably possible and a loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed.  The Company s reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims.  The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk professionals where appropriate.  In addition, outside risk professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Company s specific loss history, actual claims reported and industry trends among statistical and other factors.  Reserve estimates may be adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known.  Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in the Company s settlement strategy.  While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers and indemnifying parties, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude.  If the Company s self-insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company s financial statements. 
  In addition, the Company s operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and impose end-of-life disposal and take-back programs.  A number of the  
  
   96 

     Table of Contents  

Company s operations involve the handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable laws.  The Company must also comply with various health and safety regulations in both the United States and abroad in connection with the Company s operations.  Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had and, based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and the Company does not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. 
  In addition to environmental compliance costs, the Company from time to time incurs costs related to alleged damages associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  For example, generators of hazardous substances found in disposal sites at which environmental problems are alleged to exist, as well as the current and former owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are subject to claims brought by state and federal regulatory agencies pursuant to statutory authority.  The Company has received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and from state and non-U.S. environmental agencies, that conditions at certain sites where the Company and others previously disposed of hazardous wastes and/or are or were property owners require clean-up and other possible remedial action, including sites where the Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party under U.S. federal and state environmental laws.  The Company has projects underway at a number of current and former facilities, in both the United States and abroad, to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations.  Remediation activities generally relate to soil and/or groundwater contamination and may include pre-remedial activities such as fact-finding and investigation, risk assessment, feasibility study and/or design, as well as remediation actions such as contaminant removal, monitoring and/or installation, operation and maintenance of longer-term remediation systems.  The Company is also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. 
  The Company has recorded a provision for environmental investigation and remediation and environmental-related claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries and third-party sites where the Company has been determined to be a potentially responsible party.  The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies, as well as its prior experience with similar sites.  The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Company s involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations.  If the Company determines that potential liability for a particular site or with respect to a personal injury claim is known or considered probable and reasonably estimable, the Company accrues the total estimated loss, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site or claim.  As of   December 31, 2016  , the Company had a reserve of   $159 million   for environmental matters which are known or considered probable and reasonably estimable (of which   $126 million   are noncurrent), which reflects the Company s best estimate of the costs to be incurred with respect to such matters. 
  All reserves have been recorded without giving effect to any possible future third-party recoveries.  While the Company actively pursues insurance recoveries, as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude. 
  The Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions.  Danaher s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights.  In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding.  While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. 
  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , the Company had approximately   $799 million   and   $831 million  , respectively, of guarantees consisting primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds.  These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, insurance providers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions.  The Company believes that if the obligations under these instruments were triggered, it would not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. 

97 

Table of Contents  

NOTE 17.  STOCK TRANSACTIONS AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
  On July 16, 2013, the Company s Board of Directors approved a repurchase program (the  Repurchase Program ) authorizing the repurchase of up to   20 million   shares of the Company s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  There is no expiration date for the Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors.  The Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.  Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company s equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes.  As of   December 31, 2016  ,   20 million   shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the Repurchase Program.  The Company expects to fund any future stock repurchases using the Company s available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of debt. 
  Except in connection with the disposition of the Company s communications business to NetScout in 2015, neither the Company nor any  affiliated purchaser  repurchased any shares of Company common stock during     2016  ,   2015   or   2014  .  Refer to Note 3 for discussion of the   26 million   shares of Danaher common stock tendered to and repurchased by the Company in connection with the disposition of the Company s communications business to NetScout. 
  Stock options have been issued to directors, officers and other employees under the Company s 1998 Stock Option Plan and 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and RSUs and PSUs have been issued under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.  In addition, in connection with the 2007 Tektronix acquisition, the 2015 Pall Acquisition and the 2016 Cepheid Acquisition, the Company assumed certain outstanding stock options and RSUs, as applicable, that had been awarded under the stock compensation plans of the respective, acquired businesses.  These plans (the  Assumed Plans ) operate in a similar manner to the Company s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and 1998 Stock Option Plan, and no further equity awards will be issued under 1998 Stock Option Plan or any of the Assumed Plans.  The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, restricted stock, PSUs or any other stock-based award.  A total of approximately   76 million   shares of Danaher common stock have been authorized for issuance under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, of which no more than   23 million   shares may be granted in any form other than stock options or stock appreciation rights.  As of   December 31, 2016  , approximately   27 million   shares of the Company s common stock remain available for issuance under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.  In addition, the Company may grant up to   6 million   shares of Danaher common stock under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan based on the shares that were available for grant under Pall s shareholder-approved stock compensation plan at the time the Company acquired Pall. 
  Stock options granted under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 1998 Stock Option Plan generally vest pro rata over a   five  -year period and terminate   10   years from the grant date, though the specific terms of each grant are determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board (the  Compensation Committee ).  The Company s executive officers and certain other employees have been awarded options with different vesting criteria, and options granted to outside directors are fully vested as of the grant date.  Option exercise prices for options granted by the Company under these plans equal the closing price of the Company s common stock on the NYSE on the date of grant.  Option exercise prices for any options outstanding under the Assumed Plans were based on the closing price of the applicable acquired company s common stock on the date of grant.  In connection with the Company s assumption of these options, the number of shares underlying each option and exercise price of each option were adjusted to reflect the substitution of the Company s stock for the stock of the applicable acquired company. 
  RSUs issued under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan provide for the issuance of a share of the Company s common stock at no cost to the holder.  The RSUs that have been granted to employees under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan generally provide for time-based vesting over a   five  -year period, although executive officers and certain other employees have been awarded RSUs with different time-based vesting criteria, and RSUs granted to members of the Company s senior management are also subject to performance-based vesting criteria.  The RSUs that have been granted to directors under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan vest on the earlier of the first anniversary of the grant date or the date of, and immediately prior to, the next annual meeting of the Company s shareholders following the grant date, but the underlying shares are not issued until the earlier of the director s death or the first day of the seventh month following the director s retirement from the Board.  Prior to vesting, RSUs granted under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan do not have dividend equivalent rights, do not have voting rights and the shares underlying the RSUs are not considered issued and outstanding.  With respect to outstanding RSUs granted under the Assumed Plans, in connection with the Company s assumption of these RSUs the number of shares underlying each RSU were adjusted to reflect the substitution of the Company s stock for the stock of the applicable acquired company, and certain of these RSUs have dividend equivalent rights. 
  
   98 

     Table of Contents  

In 2015, the Company introduced into its executive officer equity compensation program PSUs that vest based on the Company s total shareholder return ranking relative to the S P 500 Index over a   three  -year performance period and are subject to an additional   two  -year holding period.  In 2016 and 2015 one-half of the annual equity awards granted to the Company s executive officers were granted as stock options, one-quarter were granted as RSUs and one-quarter were granted as PSUs.  The PSUs were issued under the Company s 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. 
  In connection with the Fortive Separation and pursuant to the anti-dilution provisions of the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, the Company made certain adjustments to the exercise price and the number of shares underlying stock-based compensation awards with the intention of preserving the intrinsic value of the awards prior to the Separation.  Accordingly, the number of shares underlying each stock-based award outstanding as of the date of the Separation was multiplied by a factor of   1.32   and the related exercise price for stock options was divided by a factor of   1.32   which resulted in no increase in the intrinsic value of awards outstanding.  The stock-based compensation awards continue to vest over their original vesting period.  These adjustments to the Company s stock-based compensation awards did not result in additional compensation expense.  Stock-based compensation awards that were held by employees who transferred to Fortive in connection with the Separation were canceled and replaced by awards issued by Fortive. 
  In connection with the NetScout transaction discussed in Note 3, the Company agreed to: (i) allow stock options held by employees of the Company s communications business that were scheduled to vest between the closing date and August 4, 2015 to vest in accordance with their terms and remain exercisable for up to   90   days following such vesting date, and (ii) allow RSUs held by employees of the Company s communications business that were scheduled to vest between the closing date and August 4, 2015 to vest in accordance with their terms.  All other outstanding, unvested awards held by employees who transferred with the communications business were canceled and replaced by awards issued by NetScout.  The related stock compensation expense for these awards in the year ended December 31,   2014   of   $6 million   has been included in the results of discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 
  The equity compensation awards granted by the Company generally vest only if the employee is employed by the Company (or in the case of directors, the director continues to serve on the Company Board) on the vesting date or in other limited circumstances.  To cover the exercise of options and vesting of RSUs and PSUs, the Company generally issues new shares from its authorized but unissued share pool, although it may instead issue treasury shares in certain circumstances. 
  The Company accounts for stock-based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date.  The Company recognizes the compensation expense over the requisite service period (which is generally the vesting period but may be shorter than the vesting period if the employee becomes retirement eligible before the end of the vesting period).  The fair value for RSU awards was calculated using the closing price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant, adjusted for the fact that RSUs (other than certain RSUs granted under the Assumed Plans) do not accrue dividends.  The fair value of the PSU awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo pricing model.  The fair value of the options granted was calculated using a Black-Scholes Merton option pricing model ( Black-Scholes ). 
  The following summarizes the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model to value options granted during the years ended December 31: 

The Black-Scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards.  The risk-free rate of interest for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on a zero-coupon U.S. government instrument whose maturity period equals or approximates the option s expected term.  Expected volatility is based on implied volatility from traded options on the Company s stock and historical volatility of the Company s stock.  The dividend yield is calculated by dividing the Company s annual dividend, based on the most recent quarterly dividend rate, by the closing stock price on the grant date.  To estimate the option exercise timing used in the valuation model (which impacts the risk-free interest rate and the expected years until exercise), in addition to considering the vesting period and contractual term of the option, the Company analyzes and considers actual historical exercise experience for previously granted options.  The Company stratifies its employee population into multiple groups for option valuation and attribution purposes based upon distinctive patterns of forfeiture rates and option  
  
   99 

     Table of Contents  

holding periods, as indicated by the ranges set forth in the table above for the risk-free interest rate and the expected years until exercise. 
  The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is also based on the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest.  The Company estimates pre-vesting forfeitures at the time of grant by analyzing historical data and revises those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.  Ultimately, the total expense recognized over the vesting period will equal the fair value of awards that actually vest. 
  The following summarizes the components of the Company s continuing operations stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31 ($ in millions): 

Stock-based compensation has been recognized as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  As of   December 31, 2016  ,   $132 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs/PSUs is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately   two   years.  As of   December 31, 2016  ,   $113 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately   three   years.  Future compensation amounts will be adjusted for any changes in estimated forfeitures. 
  
   100 

     Table of Contents  

The following summarizes option activity under the Company s stock plans (in millions, except weighted exercise price and number of years): 

(a)   
    The outstanding options as of December 31, 2015 and the option activity prior to December 31, 2015 (except those options canceled as part of the Separation as noted below) have been adjusted by a factor of   1.32  , as noted above, due to the Separation. 
               (b)   
    The  Adjustment due to Fortive Separation  reflects the cancellation of options which were outstanding as of July 2, 2016 and held by Fortive employees, which have been converted to Fortive options as part of the Separation. 
               (c)   
    The  expected to vest  options are the net unvested options that remain after applying the forfeiture rate assumption to total unvested options. 
     The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pretax intrinsic value (the difference between the Company s closing stock price on the last trading day of   2016   and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on   December 31, 2016  .  The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the price of the Company s common stock.  
  Options outstanding as of December 31,   2016   are summarized below (in millions, except price per share and number of years): 

The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was   $210 million  ,   $313 million   and   $154 million  , respectively.  Exercise of options during the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   resulted in cash receipts of   $161 million  ,   $223 million  , and   $125 million  , respectively.  Upon exercise of the award by the employee, the Company derives a tax deduction measured by the excess of the market value over the grant price at the date of exercise.  The Company realized a tax benefit of   $61 million  ,   $101 million  , and   $46 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, related to the exercise of employee stock options.  The net income tax benefit in excess of the expense recorded  
  
   101 

     Table of Contents  

for financial reporting purposes (the  excess tax benefit ) has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and is reflected as a financing cash inflow in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  The following summarizes information on unvested RSU and PSU activity (in millions, except weighted average grant-date fair value): 

(a)   
    The unvested RSUs and PSUs as of December 31, 2015 and the RSU and PSU activity in the periods prior to December 31, 2015 (except those RSUs and PSUs canceled as part of the Separation as noted below) have been adjusted by a factor of   1.32  , as noted above, due to the Separation. 
               (b)   
    The  Adjustment due to Fortive Separation  reflects the cancellation of RSUs and PSUs which were outstanding as of July 2, 2016 and held by Fortive employees which have been converted to Fortive RSUs and PSUs as part of the Separation. 
     The Company realized a tax benefit of   $38 million  ,   $46 million   and   $36 million   in the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, related to the vesting of RSUs.  The excess tax benefit attributable to RSUs has been recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and is reflected as a financing cash inflow in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  In connection with the exercise of certain stock options and the vesting of RSUs previously issued by the Company, a number of shares sufficient to fund statutory minimum tax withholding requirements has been withheld from the total shares issued or released to the award holder (though under the terms of the applicable plan, the shares are considered to have been issued and are not added back to the pool of shares available for grant).  During the year ended   December 31, 2016  ,   668 thousand   shares with an aggregate value of   $48 million   were withheld to satisfy the requirement.  During the year ended   December 31, 2015  ,   677 thousand   shares with an aggregate value of   $60 million   were withheld to satisfy the requirement.  The withholding is treated as a reduction in additional paid-in capital in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity. 

NOTE 18.  NET EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 
  Basic net earnings per share ( EPS ) from continuing operations is calculated by dividing net earnings from continuing operations by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the applicable period.  Diluted net EPS from continuing operations is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding increased by the number of additional shares that would have been outstanding had the potentially dilutive common shares been issued and reduced by the number of shares the Company could have repurchased with the proceeds from the issuance of the potentially dilutive shares.  For the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  ,   1 million  ,   2 million   and   2 million   options to purchase shares, respectively, were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation as the impact of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. 
  
   102 

     Table of Contents  

Information related to the calculation of net earnings from continuing operations per share of common stock is summarized as follows ($ and shares in millions, except per share amounts): 

103 

Table of Contents  

NOTE 19.  SEGMENT INFORMATION 
  Before the Separation, the Company operated and reported its results in   five   separate business segments consisting of the Test   Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences   Diagnostics, Dental and Industrial Technologies segments.  The Company reevaluated its business segments after the Separation, and the Company now operates and reports its results in   four     separate business segments consisting of the Life Sciences, Diagnostics, Dental and Environmental   Applied Solutions segments.  When determining the reportable segments, the Company aggregated operating segments based on their similar economic and operating characteristics.  Operating profit represents total revenues less operating expenses, excluding other expense, interest and income taxes.  The identifiable assets by segment are those used in each segment s operations.  Inter-segment amounts are not significant and are eliminated to arrive at consolidated totals. 
  Detailed segment data for the years ended December 31 is as follows ($ in millions): 

104 

     Table of Contents  

Operations in Geographical Areas: 

Sales by Major Product Group: 

105 

Table of Contents  

NOTE 20.  QUARTERLY DATA-UNAUDITED 

*   
    Net earnings per share amount does not add due to rounding. 
               **   
    Net earnings per share amounts do not add across to the full year amount due to rounding. 

106 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
  Not applicable. 

ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Based on such evaluation, the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
  Management s annual report on its internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the independent registered public accounting firm s audit report on the effectiveness of Danaher s internal control over financial reporting are included in the Company s financial statements for the year ended   December 31, 2016   included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the headings  Report of Management on Danaher Corporation s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. 
  The Company completed the acquisition of Cepheid on   November 4, 2016  .  Since the Company has not yet fully incorporated the internal controls and procedures of Cepheid into the Company s internal control over financial reporting, management excluded Cepheid from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  .  Cepheid constituted approximately   10%   of the Company s total assets as of   December 31, 2016   and accounted for approximately   1%   of the Company s total revenues for the year then ended. 
  There have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company s most recent completed quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 

ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION 
  Not applicable. 

PART III 

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  Other than the information below, the information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Proposal 1 Election of Directors of Danaher  ,   Corporate Governance   and   Other Information Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   annual meeting of shareholders and from the information under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I hereof.  No nominee for director was selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the nominee and any person other than the Company pursuant to which such person is or was to be selected as a director or nominee. 
  Code of Ethics 
  Danaher adopted a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers (including Danaher s principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) and employees, known as the Standards of Conduct.  The Standards of Conduct are available in the  Investors   Corporate Governance  section of its website at www.danaher.com. 
  Danaher intends to disclose any amendment to the Standards of Conduct that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, and any waiver from a provision of the Standards of Conduct granted to any director, principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or any of its other executive officers, in the  Investors   Corporate Governance  section of its website, at www.danaher.com, within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver. 

107 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Director Compensation, Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Compensation Committee Report, Compensation Tables   and   Summary of Employment Agreements and Plans   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   annual meeting of shareholders (provided that the Compensation Committee Report shall not be deemed to be  filed ). 

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Beneficial Ownership of Danaher Common Stock by Directors, Officers and Principal Shareholders   and   Proposal 3 - Approval of Amendments to the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and Material Terms of the Plan s Performance Goals - Equity Compensation Plan Information   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   annual meeting   of shareholders  . 

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled   Director Independence   and   Related Person Transactions   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   annual meeting of shareholders. 

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the section entitled   Proposal 2 - Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   annual meeting   of shareholders  . 

108 

Table of Contents  

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
           a) 
    The following documents are filed as part of this report. 
              (1) 
    Financial Statements.  The financial statements are set forth under  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
              (2) 
    Schedules.  An index of Exhibits and Schedules is on page   110   of this report.  Schedules other than those listed below have been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K because they are not required, are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto. 
              (3) 
    Exhibits.  The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

ITEM 16.  FORM 10-K SUMMARY 
  Not applicable. 
  
   109 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION 
  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SUPPLEMENTARY DATA AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 
                   
    Page Number in 
  Form 10-K 
      Schedule: 
      
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
    119 

EXHIBIT INDEX 
                       Exhibit Number 
      
    Description 

2.1 
      
    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 12, 2015, by and among Danaher Corporation, Pentagon Merger Sub, Inc. and Pall Corporation   +  
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2015 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

2.2 
      
    Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2016, by and between Danaher Corporation and Fortive Corporation    +  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Amendment No. 1 to Fortive Corporation s Registration Statement on Form 10, filed on March 3, 2016 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

3.1 
      
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Danaher Corporation 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2012 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

3.2 
      
    Amended and Restated By-laws of Danaher Corporation 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 6, 2016 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

4.1 
      
    Senior Indenture dated as of December 11, 2007 by and between Danaher Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as trustee ( Senior Indenture ) 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2011 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

4.2 
      
    Supplemental Indenture to Senior Indenture, dated as of December 11, 2007, by and between Danaher Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as trustee relating to the 5.625% Senior Notes Due 2018 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2011 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

4.3 
      
    Supplemental Indenture to Senior Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2009, by and between Danaher Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as trustee relating to the 5.4% Senior Notes due 2019 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2011 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

4.4 
      
    Supplemental Indenture to Senior Indenture, dated as of June 23, 2011, by and between Danaher Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as trustee relating to the 2.3% Senior Notes due 2016 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.10 to Danaher Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2011 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

110 

     Table of Contents  

111 

     Table of Contents  

112 

     Table of Contents  

10.15 
      
    Amendment to Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests by and between Danaher Corporation and Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., dated September 11, 2014* 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 15, 2014 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.16 
      
    Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests by and between Danaher Corporation and Angela S. Lalor dated March 23, 2012* 

10.17 
      
    Letter Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and Angela S. Lalor, dated March 19, 2012* 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.18 
      
    Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests by and between Danaher Corporation and Brian W. Ellis dated December 7, 2015* 

10.19 
      
    Letter Agreement by and between Danaher Corporation and Brian W. Ellis, dated November 20, 2015* 

10.20 
      
    Agreement Regarding Competition and Protection of Proprietary Interests by and between Danaher Corporation and Rainer Blair, dated May 2, 2010* 

10.21 
      
    Description of compensation arrangements for non-management directors* 

10.22 
      
    Credit Agreement, dated as of July 10, 2015, among Danaher Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and a Swing Line lender, Citibank, N.A. as Syndication Agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., The Bank Of Tokyo - Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., US Bank National Association, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, and the other lenders referred to therein  
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 10, 2015 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

10.23 
      
    Credit Agreement, dated as of July 10, 2015, among Danaher Corporation, Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Deutsche Bank Securities Corp. and Barclays Bank Plc, as Documentation Agents, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, Deutsche Bank Securities Corp. and Barclays Bank Plc, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners and the other lenders referred to therein 
      
    Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to Danaher Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 10, 2015 (Commission File Number: 1-8089) 

113 

     Table of Contents  

114 

     Table of Contents  

115 

     Table of Contents  

Danaher is a party to additional long-term debt instruments under which, in each case, the total amount of debt authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Danaher and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Danaher agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 
                     
    + 
    The schedules have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Danaher will furnish copies of such schedules to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 
        
    * 
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. 
        
    (1) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher has entered into agreements with each of Daniel L. Comas and William K. Daniel II that are substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.14 except as to the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (2) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, FJ900, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher) has entered into a management agreement with Joust Capital II, LLC that is substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.26, except as to the referenced aircraft and the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (3) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher Corporation or a subsidiary thereof has entered into additional interchange agreements with each of Joust Capital II, LLC and Joust Capital III, LLC that are substantially identical in all material respects to the form of agreement attached as 10.27, except as to the referenced aircraft and, in certain cases, the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (4) 
    In accordance with Instruction 2 to Item 601(a)(4) of Regulation S-K, Danaher Corporation has entered into an aircraft time sharing agreement and related amendment with Daniel L. Comas that are substantially identical in all material respects to the forms of agreement referenced as Exhibit 10.28 and Exhibit 10.29, respectively, except as to the name of the counterparty. 
        
    (5) 
    Refer to Note 18,  Net Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations , to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
        
    (6) 
    Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the years December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

116 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

DANAHER CORPORATION 

Date: 
    February 21, 2017 
    By: 
      
    /s/ THOMAS P. JOYCE, JR. 

Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated: 
                     Name, Title and Signature 
         
    Date 

/s/ STEVEN M. RALES 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Steven M. Rales 

Chairman of the Board 

/s/ MITCHELL P. RALES 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Mitchell P. Rales 

Chairman of the Executive Committee 

/s/ DONALD J. EHRLICH 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Donald J. Ehrlich 

Director 

/s/ LINDA HEFNER FILLER 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Linda Hefner Filler 

Director 

/s/ ROBERT J. HUGIN 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Robert J. Hugin 

Director 

/s/ THOMAS P. JOYCE, JR. 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

/s/ TERI LIST-STOLL 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Teri List-Stoll 

Director 

/s/ WALTER G. LOHR, JR. 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Walter G. Lohr, Jr. 

Director 

117 

     Table of Contents  

/s/ JOHN T. SCHWIETERS 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      John T. Schwieters 

Director 

/s/ ALAN G. SPOON 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Alan G. Spoon 

Director 

/s/ RAYMOND C. STEVENS, Ph.D. 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Raymond C. Stevens 

Director 

/s/ ELIAS A. ZERHOUNI, M.D. 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Elias A. Zerhouni, M.D. 

Director 

/s/ DANIEL L. COMAS 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Daniel L. Comas 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

/s/ ROBERT S. LUTZ 
      
    February 21, 2017 
      
      Robert S. Lutz 

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 

118 

Table of Contents  

DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
  ($ in millions) 

(a)    
    Amounts include allowance for doubtful accounts classified as current and noncurrent. 
               (b)   
    Amounts related to businesses acquired, net of amounts related to businesses disposed not included in discontinued operations. 

119 

<EX-10.6>
 2
 dhr-20161231xexx106.htm
 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.6 
  DANAHER CORPORATION 
  2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms     defined in the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) will have the same defined meanings in this Stock Option Agreement (the  Agreement ). 
           I. 
    NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT 
     Name: 
  Participant ID: 
  The undersigned Optionee has been granted an Option to purchase Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, as follows: 
                   Date of Grant 

Exercise Price per Share 
      
    $ 

Total Number of Shares Granted 

Type of Option 
      
    Nonstatutory Stock Option 

Expiration Date 
      
    Tenth anniversary of Date of Grant 

Vesting Schedule: 

Time-Based Vesting Criteria 
      
    The time-based vesting criteria will be satisfied with respect to ____% of the Options on each of the _____________ anniversaries of the Date of Grant. 

II. 
    AGREEMENT 
     1.  Grant of Option  .  The Company hereby grants to the Optionee named in this Notice of Stock Option Grant (the  Optionee ), an option (the  Option ) to purchase the number of shares (the  Shares ) set forth in the Notice of Stock Option Grant, at the exercise price per Share set forth in the Notice of Stock Option Grant (the  Exercise Price ), and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference. Except as set forth in Section 2(c) below, in the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail. 
  2.  Vesting  . 
  (a)      Vesting Schedule  .  Except as may otherwise be set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan, Options awarded to an Optionee shall not vest until the Optionee  continues to be actively employed with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary for the periods required to satisfy the time-based vesting criteria ( Time-Based Vesting Criteria ) applicable to such Options.  The Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to an Option are referred to as  Vesting Conditions,  and the earliest date upon which all Vesting Conditions are satisfied is referred to as the  Vesting Date.   The Vesting Conditions for an Option received by an Optionee shall be established by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Company s Board of Directors (or by one or more members of Company management, if such power has been delegated in accordance with the Plan and applicable law) and reflected in the account maintained for the Optionee by an external third party administrator of the Option awards.  Further, during any approved leave of absence (and without limiting the application of any other rules governing leaves of absence that the Committee may approve from time to time pursuant to the Plan), to the extent permitted by applicable law the Committee shall have discretion to provide that the vesting of the Options shall be frozen as of the first day of the leave (or as of any subsequent day during such leave, as applicable) and shall not resume until and unless the Optionee returns to active employment prior to the Expiration Date of the Options. 

(b)      Addendum  .  The provisions of Addendum A are incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this Agreement, and to the extent any provision in Addendum A conflicts with any provision set forth elsewhere in this Agreement (including without limitation any provisions relating to Retirement), the Addendum A provision shall control.  
  (c)      Fractional Shares  .  The Company will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Option.  Any fractional share will be rounded up and issued to the Optionee in a whole share. 
  3.  Exercise of Option  . 
  (a)  Right to Exercise  .  This Option shall be exercisable during its term in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Stock Option Grant and with the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. 
  (b)  Method and Time of Exercise  .  This Option shall be exercisable by any method permitted by the Plan and this Agreement that is made available from time to time by the external third party administrator of the Option awards.  An exercise may be made with respect to whole Shares only, and not for a fraction of a Share.  Shares shall not be issued under the Plan unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares comply with (or are exempt from) all applicable requirements of law, including (without limitation) the Securities Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws and regulations, and the regulations of any stock exchange or other securities market on which the Company s securities may then be traded.  The Committee may require the Optionee to take any reasonable action in order to comply with any such rules or regulations.  Assuming such compliance, for income tax purposes the Shares shall be considered transferred to the Optionee on the date the Option is exercised with respect to such Shares.     
  (c)  Acknowledgment of Potential Securities Law Restrictions  .  Unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the Shares issued upon exercise of an Option, the Committee may require that the Optionee agree in writing to acquire such Shares for investment and not for public resale or distribution, unless and until the Shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act.  The Committee may also require the Optionee to acknowledge that he or she shall not sell or transfer such Shares except in compliance with all applicable laws, and may apply such other restrictions as it deems appropriate.  The Optionee acknowledges that the U.S. federal securities laws prohibit trading in the stock of the Company by persons who are in possession of material, non-public information, and also acknowledges and understands the other restrictions set forth in the Company s Insider Trading Policy. 
  (d)      Automatic Exercise Upon Expiration Date  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement (other than this Section), on the last trading day on which all or a portion of the outstanding Option may be exercised, if as of the close of trading on such day the then Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock exceeds the per share Exercise Price of the Option by at least $.01 (such expiring portion of the Option that is so in-the-money, an  Auto-Exercise Eligible Option ), Optionee will be deemed to have automatically exercised such Auto-Exercise Eligible Option (to the extent it has not previously been exercised or forfeited) as of the close of trading in accordance with the provisions of this Section.  In the event of an automatic exercise pursuant to this Section, the Company will reduce the number of shares of Common Stock issued to Optionee upon such automatic exercise of the Auto-Exercise Eligible Option in an amount necessary to satisfy (1) Optionee s Exercise Price obligation for the Auto-Exercise Eligible Option, and (2) the minimum, applicable Federal, state, local and, if applicable, foreign income and employment tax and social insurance withholding requirements arising upon the automatic exercise in accordance with the procedures of Section 6(f) of the Plan (unless the Committee deems that a different method of satisfying the tax withholding obligations is practicable and advisable), in each case based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock as of the close of trading on the date of exercise.  Optionee may notify the Plan record-keeper in writing in advance that Optionee does not wish for the Auto-Exercise Eligible Option to be exercised. This Section shall not apply to the Option to the extent that this Section causes the Option to fail to qualify for favorable tax treatment under applicable law. In its discretion, the Company may determine to cease automatically exercising Options at any time. 
  4.  Method of Payment  .  Unless the Committee consents otherwise, payment of the aggregate Exercise Price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Optionee: 
  (a)  cash, delivered to the external third party administrator of the Option awards in any methodology permitted by such third party administrator; 
  (b)  payment under a cashless exercise program approved by the Company or through a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which the Optionee (i) shall provide written instructions to a licensed broker acceptable to the Company and acting as agent for the Optionee to effect the immediate sale of some or all of the purchased Shares and to remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares and (ii) shall provide written direction to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction; or 

(c)  surrender of other Shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate Exercise Price of the exercised Shares. 
  5.  Termination of Employment  . 
  (a)      General  .  In the event the Optionee s active employment or other active service-providing relationship with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary terminates for any reason (other than death, Early Retirement or Normal Retirement) whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws, all unvested Options shall be automatically forfeited by the Optionee as of the date of termination and Optionee s right to receive options under the Plan shall also terminate as of the date of termination. The Committee shall have discretion to determine whether the Optionee has ceased to be actively employed by (or, if the Optionee is a consultant or director, has ceased actively providing services to) the Company or Eligible Subsidiary, and the effective date on which such active employment (or active service-providing relationship) terminated.  The Optionee s active employer-employee or other active service-providing relationship will not be extended by any notice period mandated under applicable law (  e.g.,   active employment shall not include a period of  garden leave , paid administrative leave or similar period  pursuant to applicable law) and in the event of an Optionee s termination of employment (whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws), Optionee s right to exercise any Option after termination of employment, if any, shall be measured by the date of termination of active employment or service and shall not be extended by any notice period mandated under applicable law.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise (1) termination of the Optionee s employment will include instances in which the Optionee is terminated and immediately rehired as an independent contractor, and (2) the spin off, sale, or disposition of the Optionee s employer from the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary (whether by transfer of shares, assets or otherwise) such that the Optionee s employer no longer constitutes an Eligible Subsidiary will constitute a termination of employment or service. 
  (b)      General Post-Termination Exercise Period  .  In the event the Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary terminates for any reason (other than  death, Disability, Early Retirement, Normal Retirement or Gross Misconduct), whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws, the Optionee shall have a period of 90 days, commencing with the date the Optionee is no longer actively employed, to exercise the vested portion of any outstanding Options, subject to the Expiration Date of the Option.  However, if the exercise of an Option following Optionee s termination of employment (to the extent such post-termination exercise is permitted under Section 11(a) of the Plan) is not covered by an effective registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, then the Option will terminate upon the later of (i) thirty (30) days after such exercise becomes covered by an effective registration statement, (ii) in the event that a sale of shares of Common Stock would subject the Optionee to liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, thirty (30) days after the last date on which such sale would result in liability, or (iii) the end of the original post-termination exercise period, but in no event may an Option be exercised after the Expiration Date of the Option. 
  (c)      Death  .  Upon Optionee s death prior to termination of employment, all unexpired Options shall become fully exercisable and may be exercised for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter (subject to the Expiration Date of the Option) by the personal representative of the Optionee s estate or any other person to whom the Option is transferred under a will or under the applicable laws of descent and distribution.  
  (d)      Disability  .  In the event the Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary terminates by reason of the Optionee s Disability, all unvested Options shall be automatically forfeited by the Optionee as of the date of termination and the Optionee shall have until the first anniversary of the Optionee s termination of employment for Disability (subject to the Expiration Date of the Option) to exercise the vested portion of any outstanding Options. 
  (e)      Early Retirement  .  In the event the Optionee ceases to be an Employee as a result of Early Retirement, and the Date of Grant of this Option precedes the Optionee s Early Retirement date by at least six (6) months, with respect to each Tranche that is unvested as of the Early Retirement date (a  Tranche  consists of all portions of the Option as to which the Time-Based Vesting Criteria are scheduled to be satisfied on the same date), a pro-rata portion of such Tranche (i.e. based on the ratio of (x) the number of full or partial months worked by the Optionee from the Date of Grant to the Early Retirement date to (y) the total number of months in the original time-based vesting schedule of the Tranche) will continue to vest and such Options together with any Options that are vested as of the Optionee s Early Retirement date shall remain outstanding and (once vested) may be exercised until the fifth anniversary of the Early Retirement date (or if earlier, the Expiration Date of the Option).  If the Date of Grant of this Option does not precede the Optionee s Early Retirement date by at least six (6) months, the post-termination exercise period with respect to such Option shall be governed by the other provisions of this Section 5, as applicable. 
  (f)      Normal Retirement  .  In the event the Optionee ceases to be an Employee as a result of Normal Retirement, and the Date of Grant of this Option precedes the Optionee s Normal Retirement date by at least six (6) months, the Optionee s unvested Options will continue to vest and such Options together with any Options that are vested as of the Optionee s Normal Retirement date shall remain outstanding and (once vested) may be exercised until the fifth anniversary of the Normal Retirement date (or if earlier, the Expiration Date of the Option). If the Date of Grant of this Option does not precede the Optionee s  

Normal Retirement date by at least six (6) months, the post-termination exercise period with respect to such Option shall be governed by the other provisions of this Section 5, as applicable. 
  (g)      Gross Misconduct  .  If the Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary is terminated for Gross Misconduct, the Optionee s unexercised Options shall terminate immediately as of the time of termination, without consideration.  The Optionee acknowledges and agrees that the Optionee s termination of employment shall also be deemed to be a termination of employment by reason of the Optionee s Gross Misconduct if, after the Optionee s employment has terminated, facts and circumstances are discovered or confirmed by the Company that would have justified a termination for Gross Misconduct. 
  (h)      Violation of Post-Employment Covenant  .  To the extent that any of the Optionee s Options remain outstanding under the terms of the Plan or this Agreement after termination of the Optionee s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary, such Options shall nevertheless expire as of the date the Optionee violates any covenant not to compete or other post-employment covenant that exists between the Optionee on the one hand and the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand. 
  (i)      Substantial Corporate Change  .  Upon a Substantial Corporate Change, the Optionee s outstanding Options will terminate unless provision is made in writing in connection with such transaction for the assumption or continuation of the Options, or the substitution for such Options of any options or grants covering the stock or securities of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary of such successor, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares of stock and prices, in which event the Options will continue in the manner and under the terms so provided.   
  6.  Non-Transferability of Option; Term of Option  . 
  (a)  Unless the Committee determines otherwise in advance in writing, this Option may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the applicable laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by Optionee and/or by his or her duly appointed guardian. The terms of the Plan and this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and permitted successors and assigns of the Optionee. 
  (b)  Notwithstanding any other term in this Agreement, this Option may be exercised only prior to the Expiration Date set out in the Notice of Stock Option Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Agreement. 
  7.  Amendment of Option or Plan  .   
  (a)  The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Optionee with respect to the subject matter hereof.  Optionee expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein.  The Company s Board may amend, modify or terminate the Plan or any Option in any respect at any time; provided, however, that modifications to this Agreement or the Plan that materially and adversely affect the Optionee s rights hereunder can be made only in an express written contract signed by the Company and the Optionee.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Company reserves the right to revise this Agreement and Optionee s rights under outstanding Options as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Optionee, (1) upon a Substantial Corporate Change, (2) as required by law, or (3) to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( Section 409A ) or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A in connection with this award of Options. 
  (b)    The Optionee acknowledges and agrees that if the Optionee changes classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee the Committee may in its sole discretion (1) reduce or eliminate the Optionee s unvested Options, and/or (2) extend any vesting schedule to one or more dates that occur on or before the Expiration Date. 
  8.  Tax Obligations  .   
  (a)      Withholding Taxes  .  Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing the Optionee (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any or all federal, state, local or foreign income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax related items ( Tax Related Items ), the Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the Option is and remains the Optionee s responsibility and that the Company and the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate the Optionee s liability for Tax Related Items.  Further, if Optionee is subject  

to tax in more than one jurisdiction, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  Prior to the relevant taxable event, Optionee shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer (in its sole discretion) to satisfy all withholding and payment on account obligations for Tax Related Items of the Company and/or the Employer.  In this regard, the Optionee authorizes the Company and the Employer, or either of them, in such entity s sole discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by the Optionee (with respect to the Option granted hereunder as well as any equity awards previously received by the Optionee under any Company stock plan) by one or a combination of the following:  (i) requiring the Optionee to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check or by wire transfer of immediately available funds; (ii) withholding cash from the Optionee s wages or other compensation payable to the Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) accepting from the Optionee the delivery of unencumbered Shares; (iv) withholding from the proceeds of a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure as described in Section 4(b) above; or (v) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to the Optionee, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount (or if there is no minimum statutory withholding amount, such amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment) using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event.  Optionee shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of the Optionee s participation in the Plan or the Optionee s purchase of Shares that are not satisfied by any of the means previously described.  For the avoidance of doubt, in no event will the Company and/or the Employer withhold more than the minimum amount of Tax Related Items required by law (or if there is no minimum statutory withholding amount, such amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment), nor shall any Optionee have the right to require the Company and/or the Employer to withhold more than such amount.  The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to deliver the Shares to the Optionee if the Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax Related Items as described in this Section.  
  (b)      Code Section 409A  .  Payments made pursuant to this Plan and the Agreement are intended to qualify for an exemption from or comply with Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement,  the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Agreement to ensure that all Options granted to Optionees who are United States taxpayers are made in such a manner that either qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations that the Plan or the Options shall be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Plan or any Options granted thereunder.  If this Agreement fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the Optionee by Section 409A, and the Optionee shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Section 409A. 
  9.  Rights as Shareholder  .  Until all requirements for exercise of the Option pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan have been satisfied, the Optionee shall not be deemed to be a shareholder or to have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any Shares.  
  10.  No Employment Contract  .  Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement constitutes an employment contract between the Company and the Optionee and this Agreement shall not confer upon the Optionee any right to continuation of employment with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, nor shall this Agreement interfere in any way with the Company s or any of its Subsidiaries right to terminate the Optionee s employment at any time, with or without cause (subject to any employment agreement an Optionee may otherwise have with the Company or a Subsidiary thereof and/or applicable law).  
  11.  Board Authority  .  The Board and/or the Committee shall have the power to interpret this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether any Options have vested).  All interpretations and determinations made by the Board and/or the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon Optionee, the Company and all other interested persons and such determinations of the Board and/or the Committee do not have to be uniform nor do they have to consider whether optionees are similarly situated.  No member of the Board and/or the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to this Agreement.   
  12.  Headings  .  The captions used in this Agreement and the Plan are inserted for convenience and shall not be deemed to be a part of the Option for construction and interpretation. 
  13.  Electronic Delivery  .  
  (a)    If the Optionee executes this Agreement electronically, for the avoidance of doubt Optionee acknowledges and agrees that his or her execution of this Agreement electronically (through an on-line system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company, or otherwise) shall have the same binding legal effect  

as would execution of this Agreement in paper form.  Optionee acknowledges that upon request of the Company he or she shall also provide an executed, paper form of this Agreement. 
  (b)    If the Optionee executes this Agreement in paper form, for the avoidance of doubt the parties acknowledge and agree that it is their intent that any agreement previously or subsequently entered into between the parties that is executed electronically shall have the same binding legal effect as if such agreement were executed in paper form. 
  (c)    If Optionee executes this Agreement multiple times (for example, if the Optionee first executes this Agreement in electronic form and subsequently executes the Agreement in paper form), the Optionee acknowledges and agrees that (i) no matter how many versions of this Agreement are executed and in whatever medium, this Agreement only evidences a single grant of Options relating to the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Stock Option Grant and (ii) this Agreement shall be effective as of the earliest execution of this Agreement by the parties, whether in paper form or electronically, and the subsequent execution of this Agreement in the same or a different medium shall in no way impair the binding legal effect of this Agreement as of the time of original execution. 
  (d)    The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver by electronic means any documents related to the Option, to participation in the Plan, or to future awards granted under the Plan, or otherwise required to be delivered to the Optionee pursuant to the Plan or under applicable law, including but not limited to, the Plan, the Agreement, the Plan prospectus and any reports of the Company generally provided to shareholders.  Such means of electronic delivery may include, but do not necessarily include, the delivery of a link to the Company s intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of documents via electronic mail ( e-mail ) or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.  By executing this Agreement, the Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery.    At the Optionee s written request to the Secretary of the Company, the Company shall provide a paper copy of any document at no cost to the Optionee. 
  14.     Data Privacy  .  Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her Data (as defined below) by and among, as necessary and applicable, the Employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan and in the Company s Amended 1998 Plan. 
  Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or insurance number or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, and job title, any Common Stock or directorships held in the Company, and details of the Option or any other option or other entitlement to Shares, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in Optionee s favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan.  Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee s country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipients  country may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee s country.  Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan and/or in the Amended 1998 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom Optionee may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option or any other option or other entitlement to Shares. 
  Optionee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative. Optionee understands that Data shall be held as long as is reasonably necessary to implement, administer and manage his or her participation in the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan, and he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  Further, Optionee understands that Optionee is providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If Optionee does not consent, or if Optionee later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her employment status or service with his or her employer will not be adversely affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing Optionee's consent is that the Company would not be able to grant Options or other equity awards to Optionee or to administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, Optionee understands that refusing or withdrawing such consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan.  In addition, Optionee understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries have separately implemented procedures for the handling of Data which the Company believes permits the Company to use the Data in the manner set forth above notwithstanding Optionee s withdrawal of such consent.  For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative. 

15.  Waiver of Right to Jury Trial  .  Each party, to the fullest extent permitted by law, waives any right or expectation against the other to trial or adjudication by a jury of any claim, cause or action arising with respect to the Option or hereunder, or the rights, duties or liabilities created hereby.   
  16.  Agreement Severable  .  In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement. 
  17.  Governing Law and Venue  . The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) shall govern this Agreement and its interpretation.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises with respect to this Option, this Agreement or the Plan, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New Castle County, or the United States Federal court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts; and waive, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that the laying of the venue of any legal or equitable proceedings related to, concerning or arising from such dispute which is brought in any such court is improper or that such proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum.  Any claim under the Plan, this Agreement or any Award must be commenced by Optionee within twelve (12) months of the earliest date on which Optionee s claim first arises, or Optionee s cause of action accrues, or such claim will be deemed waived by Optionee.   
  18.  Nature of Option  .  In accepting the Option, Optionee acknowledges and agrees that: 
  (a)    the award of the Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of options, benefits in lieu of options or other equity awards, even if options have been granted repeatedly in the past; 
  (b)    all decisions with respect to future equity awards, if any, shall be at the sole discretion of the Company; 
  (c)    Optionee s participation in the Plan is voluntary; 
  (d)    the Option, and the income and value of same, is an extraordinary item that (i) does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or any Subsidiary, and (ii) is outside the scope of Optionee s employment or service contract, if any; 
  (e)    the Option, and the income and value of same, is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or any Subsidiary; 
  (f)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Option, and the income and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, any service Optionee may provide as a director of any Subsidiary; 
  (g)    the Option and Optionee s participation in the Plan shall not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company; 
  (h)    the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; 
  (i)    if the Shares do not increase in value, the Option will have no value; 
  (j)    if Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the Shares obtained upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price; 
  (k)    in consideration of the award of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Option or diminution in value of the Option, or Shares purchased through the exercise of the Option, resulting from termination of Optionee s employment or continuous service by the Company or any Subsidiary (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws of the jurisdiction where Optionee is employed or the terms of Optionee s employment agreement, if any, and whether or not later found to be invalid) and in consideration of the grant of the Option, Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and any Subsidiary from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing/electronically accepting the Agreement, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Optionee s entitlement to pursue or seek remedy for any such claim; 

(l)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company in writing, the Options, the underlying Shares and the income and value of same are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, any service Optionee may provide as a director of a Subsidiary or affiliate; 
  (m)    the Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares; and 
  (n)    Optionee is should consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
  19.  Language  .  If Optionee has received this Agreement, the Plan or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control, unless otherwise prescribed by applicable law.  
  20.      Severability  .  The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 
  21.      Waiver  .  Optionee acknowledges that a waiver by the Company of breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by Optionee or any other participant. 
  22.      Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws  .  Optionee acknowledges that, depending on Optionee's country, Optionee may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect his or her ability to acquire or sell Shares or exercise Options under the Plan during such times as Optionee is considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws in Optionee's country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable insider trading policy of the Company. Optionee acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to comply with any applicable restrictions, and Optionee is advised to consult with his or her own personal legal and financial advisors on this matter. 
  23.      Addendum  .  The Option shall be subject to the special terms and provisions (if any) set forth in the Addendum A to this Agreement for Optionee s country of residence.  Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Addendum A, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with applicable law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not result in any adverse accounting expense with respect to the Option.  Addendum A constitutes part of this Agreement.  In addition, the Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Option and any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with applicable law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not result in adverse accounting expense to the Company, and to require Optionee to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
  24.      Recoupment  .  The Options granted pursuant to this Agreement are subject to the terms of the Danaher Corporation Recoupment Policy as it exists from time to time (a copy of the Recoupment Policy as it exists from time to time is available on Danaher s internal website) (the  Policy ) if and to the extent such Policy by its terms applies to the Options, and to the terms required by applicable law; and the terms of the Policy and such applicable law are incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof. 
  25.      Notices  .  The Company may, directly or through its     third party stock plan administrator, endeavor to provide certain notices to Optionee regarding certain events relating to awards that Optionee may have received or may in the future receive under the 1998 Plan and/or the Plan, such as  notices reminding Optionee of the vesting or expiration date of certain awards.  Optionee acknowledges and agrees that (1) the Company has no obligation (whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise) to provide any such notices; (2) to the extent the Company does provide any such notices to Optionee the Company does not thereby assume any obligation to provide any such notices or other notices; and (3) the Company, its affiliates and the third party stock plan administrator have no liability for, and Optionee has no right whatsoever (whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise) to make any claim against the Company, any of its affiliates or the third party stock plan administrator based on any allegations of, damages or harm suffered by Optionee as a result of the Company s failure to provide any such notices or Optionee s failure to receive any such notices. 
  26.      Consent and Agreement With Respect to Plans  . Optionee (1) acknowledges that the Plan and the prospectus relating thereto are available to Optionee on the website maintained by the Company s third party stock plan administrator; (2) represents that he or she has read and is familiar with the terms and provisions thereof, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel of his or her choice prior to executing this Agreement and fully understands  

all provisions of the Agreement and the Plan; (3) accepts this Option subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof; (4) consents and agrees to all amendments that have been made to the Plan since it was adopted in 2007 (and for the avoidance of doubt consents and agrees to each amended term reflected in the Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement), and consents and agrees that all options and restricted stock units, if any, held by Optionee that were previously granted under the Plan as it has existed from time to time are now governed by the Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement (except to the extent the Committee has expressly provided that a particular Plan amendment does not apply retroactively); and (5) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Plan or this Agreement.  
  In addition, in consideration of the Option and by signing/electronically accepting this Agreement, Optionee agrees as follows with respect to any stock options or restricted stock units held by Optionee that were previously granted under the Company s 1998 Stock Option Plan as it has existed from time to time: Optionee (1) acknowledges that the Company s Board of Directors approved an amended version of the 1998 Stock Option Plan in July 2009 and that the amended version of the 1998 Stock Option Plan (the  Amended 1998 Plan ) and the prospectus relating thereto are available to Optionee on the website maintained by the Company s third party stock plan administrator; (2) represents that he or she has read the Amended 1998 Plan and the prospectus relating thereto and is familiar with the terms and provisions thereof, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel of his or her choice and fully understands all provisions of the Amended 1998 Plan; (3) consents and agrees to the Amended 1998 Plan (and for the avoidance of doubt consents and agrees to each amended term reflected in the Amended 1998 Plan); (4) consents and agrees that all options and restricted stock units, if any, held by Optionee that were previously granted under the 1998 Stock Option Plan as it has existed from time to time are now governed by the Amended 1998 Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement; and (5) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Amended 1998 Plan.  Optionee further agrees to notify the Company upon any change in his or her residence address. 

[  If the Agreement is signed in paper form, complete and execute the following:  ] 
                   OPTIONEE 
      
    DANAHER CORPORATION 

Signature 
      
    Signature 

Print Name 
      
    Print Name 

Title 

Residence Address 

ADDENDUM A 
  This Addendum includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Option granted to Optionee if Optionee works and/or resides in one of the countries listed herein.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Notice of Stock Option Grant, the Agreement or the Plan. 
  This Addendum may also include information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which Optionee should be aware with respect to Optionee s participation in the Plan.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws concerning Options in effect as of March 2016.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently.      As a result, the Company strongly recommends that Optionee not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of Optionee s participation in the Plan as the information may be out of date at the time Optionee exercises the Option or sells Shares acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, this Addendum is general in nature and may not apply to Optionee s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure Optionee of any particular result.    Accordingly, Optionee should to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in Optionee s country apply to Optionee s specific situation. 
  If Optionee is a citizen of a country other than the one in which Optionee is currently working, transfers employment and/or residency after the Option was granted or is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein may not be applicable to Optionee in the same manner.   
  OPTIONEES IN AUSTRALIA, CZECH REPUBLIC, GERMANY, HUNGARY, IRELAND, NEW ZEALAND, SLOVAKIA AND THE UNITED KINGDOM 
  Sections 5(e) and (f) of this Agreement, (Early Retirement and Normal Retirement, respectively),  shall not apply to any Optionee who as of the Date of Grant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment in Australia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, New Zealand, Slovakia or the United Kingdom.  Instead, the provisions of Section 5(a) (General), shall apply, notwithstanding the provisions therein regarding Early Retirement and Normal Retirement to the contrary.   
  OPTIONEES IN AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, DENMARK, FINLAND, FRANCE, ITALY, THE NETHERLANDS, POLAND, SLOVENIA, SPAIN AND SWEDEN 
  Section 5(e) of this Agreement (regarding Early Retirement) shall not apply to any Optionee who as of the Date of Grant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovenia, Spain or Sweden (collectively, the  Statutory Retirement Age Countries ). Instead, the provisions of Section 5(a) (General), shall apply, notwithstanding the provisions therein regarding Early Retirement to the contrary. 
  For purposes of applying the Plan and Section 5(f) of this Agreement (regarding Normal Retirement) to any Optionee who as of the Date of Grant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment in any of the Statutory Retirement Age Countries, the definition of "Normal Retirement" set forth in the Plan shall not apply and instead "Normal Retirement" shall mean such Optionee's attainment of the statutory retirement age in the jurisdiction in which the Optionee is on permanent, non-temporary assignment as of the Date of Grant. In the absence of a statutory retirement age in such jurisdiction, "Normal Retirement" shall mean attainment of the customary age for retirement in such jurisdiction. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that subsequent to the Date of Grant such Optionee works in a jurisdiction other than in the jurisdiction in which the Optionee was on permanent, non-temporary assignment as of the Date of Grant, if required to comply with applicable law, the Committee shall have sole and absolute discretion to instead apply to such Optionee the retirement provisions of this Agreement that are applicable in such other jurisdiction.  
  OPTIONEES IN CHINA AND ITALY 
  Method of Exercise  
  Optionee acknowledges that due to regulatory requirements, and notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan or the Agreement to the contrary, Optionees residing in mainland China and Italy will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise with respect to their Options. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, Optionee understands that Optionee needs to instruct the broker to: (i) sell all of the purchased Shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the Exercise Price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in cash to Optionee.  In the event of changes in regulatory requirements, the Company reserves the right to eliminate the cashless sell-all method of exercise requirement and, in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercise, cashless sell-to-cover exercise or any other method of exercise and payment deemed appropriate by the Company.  

OPTIONEES IN ARGENTINA 
  Securities Law Notice 
  Optionee understands that neither the grant of the Option nor the purchase of Shares constitute a public offering as defined by the Law N  17,811, or any other Argentine law.  The offering of the Option is a private placement.  As such, the offering is not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement  
  Any benefits awarded under the Plan accrue no more frequently than on an annual basis.  In addition, Optionee acknowledges that the grant is made by the Company on behalf of Optionee s local employer. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Following the sale of Shares and/or the receipt of dividends, Argentine residents may be subject to certain restrictions in bringing such funds back into Argentina.  The Argentine bank handling the transaction may request certain documentation in connection with the request to transfer proceeds into Argentina (e.g., evidence of the sale, proof of the source of the funds used to purchase such shares, etc.).  The Optionee must comply with any and all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with the exercise of the option, the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon exercise and the receipt of any dividends paid on such shares. 
  Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change.  The Optionee should consult with his or her personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations the Optionee may have in connection with the Optionee s participation in the Plan. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  If Optionee holds Shares as of December 31 of any year, Optionee is required to report the holding of the Shares on his or her personal tax return for the relevant year. In addition, certain periodic reporting obligations also apply; specifically, when Optionee acquires, sells, transfers or otherwise disposes of Shares on or after January 1, 2012, Optionee must register the transaction with the Federal Tax Administration.  
  OPTIONEES IN AUSTRALIA 
  Securities Law Notice 
  If you acquire Shares under the Plan and subsequently offer the Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, such an offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law, and you should obtain legal advice regarding any applicable disclosure requirements prior to making any such offer. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding A$10,000 and international fund transfers of any amount.  The Australian bank assisting with the transaction will file the report for Optionee.  If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, Optionee will be responsible for filing the report. 
  OPTIONEES IN AUSTRIA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If the Optionee holds Shares acquired under the Plan outside of Austria, the Optionee must submit a report to the Austrian National Bank as follows: (i) on a quarterly basis if the value of the shares as of any given quarter meets or exceeds  30,000,000; the deadline for filing the quarterly report is the 15th day of the month following the end of the respective quarter and (ii) on an annual basis if the value of the shares as of December 31 meets or exceeds  5,000,000; the deadline for filing the annual report is January 31 of the following year. 
  When the Optionee sells Shares acquired under the Plan, the Optionee may be required to comply with certain exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds from the sale are held outside of Austria.  If the transaction volume of all accounts abroad exceeds  3,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month. 

OPTIONEES IN BELGIUM 
  Terms and Conditions 
  Options granted to Optionees in Belgium shall not be accepted by Optionee earlier than the 61   st    day following the Offer Date. The Offer Date is the date on which the Company notifies Optionee of the material terms and conditions of the Option grant.  Any acceptance given by Optionee before the 61   st    day following the grant date shall be null and void. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  The Optionee is required to report any taxable income attributable to this Option on his or her annual tax return.  The Optionee is also required to report any security or bank account opened and maintained outside of Belgium on Optionee s annual tax return.  In a separate report, Optionee is required to provide a central point of contact point to the National Bank of Belgium with the account number, bank name and country in which said bank account was opened.  This report, as well as additional information on how to complete it, can be found on the website of the National Bank of Belgium, www.nbb.be, under the   Kredietcentrales / Centrales des cr dits   caption. 
  OPTIONEES IN BRAZIL 
  Compliance with Law     
  By accepting the Option, the Optionee acknowledges that he or she agrees to comply with applicable Brazilian laws and pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the exercise of the Option, the receipt of any dividends, and the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan.   
  Nature of Grant 
  By accepting the Options, Optionee agrees that Optionee is making an investment decision, the Options will become exercisable only if the vesting conditions are met and any necessary services are rendered by Optionee, and the value of the underlying Shares is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the vesting period without compensation to Optionee.   
  Labor Law Acknowledgement 
  Optionee agrees that, for all legal purposes, (i) the benefits provided under the Agreement and the Plan are the result of commercial transactions unrelated to Optionee s employment; (ii) the Agreement and the Plan are not part of any terms and conditions of Optionee s employment; and (iii) the income from the Options, if any, is not part of Optionee s remuneration from employment.   
  Securities Law Notice 
  The Options and the securities acquired under the Plan have not been and will not be publicly issued, place, distributed, offered or negotiated in the Brazilian capital markets and, as a result, will not be registered with the Brazilian Securities Commission (C  omiss o de Valores Mobili rios,   the CVM). Therefore, the Options and the securities acquired upon exercise of the Options will not be offered or sold in Brazil, except in circumstances which do not constitute a public offering, placement, distribution or negotiation under the Brazilian capital markets regulation. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If Optionee is a resident or domiciled in Brazil, Optionee will be required to submit annually a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights is equal to or greater than US$100,000. Assets and rights that must be reported include Shares acquired under the Plan.  Foreign individuals holding Brazilian visas are considered Brazilian residents for purposes of this reporting requirement and must declare the assets held abroad that were acquired subsequent to the date of admittance as a resident of Brazil.  Please note that the US$100,000 threshold may be changed annually. 
  OPTIONEES IN CANADA 
  Consent to Receive Information in English for Optionees in Quebec   
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be written in English. 
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais du pr sent Contrat, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relativement   ou suite au pr sent Contrat. 

Data Privacy 
  Optionee hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  Optionee further authorizes the Company and its Subsidiaries and affiliates, and any stock plan service provider that may be selected by the Company, to assist with the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their respective advisors.  Optionee further authorizes the Company and its Subsidiaries and affiliates to record such information and to keep such information in his or her employee file. 
  Securities Law Notice 
  Optionee is permitted to sell Shares acquired through the Plan through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any (or any other broker acceptable to the Company), provided the resale of Shares acquired under the Plan takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares are listed.  The Shares are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  Foreign property, including Options, Shares acquired under the Plan and other rights to receive shares of a non-Canadian company held by a Canadian resident must generally be reported annually on a Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time during the year. Thus, such Options must be reported - generally at a nil cost - if the C$100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because Optionee holds other foreign property. When Shares are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base ( ACB ) of the shares. The ACB would ordinarily equal the fair market value of the shares at the time of acquisition, but if Optionee owns other shares of the same company, this ACB may need to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares.  Optionee should consult his or her personal legal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable reporting obligations. 
  OPTIONEES IN CHILE 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of the Options hereunder is not intended to be a public offering of securities in Chile but instead is intended to be a private placement. 
           a) 
    The starting date of the offer will be the Grant Date (as defined in the Agreement), and this offer conforms to General Ruling no. 336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance; 
              b) 
    The offer deals with securities not registered in the registry of securities or in the registry of foreign securities of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance, and therefore such securities are not subject to its oversight;  
              c) 
    The issuer is not obligated to provide public information in Chile regarding the foreign securities, as such securities are not registered with the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance; and  
              d) 
    The foreign securities shall not be subject to public offering as long as they are not registered with the corresponding registry of securities in Chile. 
              a) 
    La fecha de inicio de la oferta ser  el de la fecha de otorgamiento (o  Grant Date , seg n este t rmino se define en el documento denominado  Agreement ) y esta oferta se acoge a la norma de Car cter General n  336 de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros Chilena;  
              b) 
    La oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el registro de valores o en el registro de valores extranjeros que lleva la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros Chilena, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta;  
              c) 
    Por tratar de valores no inscritos no existe la obligaci n por parte del emisor de entregar en chile informaci n p blica respecto de esos valores; y 
              d) 
    Esos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica mientras no sean inscritos en el registro de valores correspondiente. 
     Exchange Control Notice 
  It is the Optionee s responsibility to make sure that Optionee complies with exchange control requirements in Chile when the value of his or her stock transaction is in the excess of US$10,000. 

If the Optionee pays the Exercise Price in cash or check and remits funds in excess of US$10,000 out of Chile, the remittance must be made through the Formal Exchange Market ( FEM,    i.e.  , a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office).  
  If the Optionee pays the Exercise Price under a cashless exercise program implemented by the Company in connection with the Plan, and the aggregate value of the Exercise Price exceeds US$10,000, a report must be filed with the Central Bank within 10 days of the exercise date.  
  If the Optionee repatriates to Chile sale proceeds from Shares that were purchased by funds that were required to be transferred out of Chile through the FEM or if the amount of sale proceeds repatriated to Chile exceeds US$10,000, he or she must use the FEM for transferring the proceeds into Chile. 
  If the Optionee s aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceed US$5,000,000 (including the investments made under the Plan), the Optionee must report the status of such investments annually to the Central Bank, using Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations. 
  Annual Tax Reporting Obligation 
  The CIRS requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding (i) the results of investments held abroad in quotas or shares in which the taxpayer participates directly or indirectly in the direction, control, equity or profits; and (ii) the taxes paid abroad which the taxpayers will use as credit against Chilean income tax.  To comply with these annual reporting obligations Optionee must submit a sworn statements setting forth the required information before March 15 of each year.  The forms to be use to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Permanent Investments Held Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.   If Optionee is not a Chilean citizen and has been a resident in Chile for less than 3 years, Optionee will be exempt from the requirements to file Tax Form 1853.  These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website at www.sii.cl.  Optionee should consult with his or her personal tax advisor to determine the applicable reporting obligations. 
  OPTIONEES IN CHINA 
  Terms and Conditions - Exchange Control Restrictions Applicable to Optionees who are PRC Nationals 
  Optionee understands that, except as otherwise provided herein, his or her Options can be exercised only by means of the cashless sell-all method, under which all Shares underlying the option are immediately sold upon exercise.   
  In addition, Optionee understands and agrees that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, Optionee is required to repatriate the cash proceeds from the cashless sell-all method of exercise of options, (i.e., the sale proceeds less the Exercise Price and any administrative fees).  Optionee agrees that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the immediate sale of such shares (on Optionee s behalf pursuant to this authorization), and Optionee expressly authorizes such broker to complete the sale of such shares. Optionee acknowledges that the Company s broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the shares at any particular price.  The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on the development of local law. 
  In addition, Optionee understands and agrees that the cash proceeds from the exercise of his or her Options, (i.e., the proceeds of the sale of the shares underlying the Options,  less the Exercise Price and any administrative fees) will be repatriated to China.  Optionee further understands that, under local law, such repatriation of the cash proceeds may be effectuated through a special foreign exchange control account to be approved by the local foreign exchange administration, and Optionee hereby consents and agrees that the proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan, net of the Exercise Price and administrative fees, may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to Optionee.  The proceeds, net of Tax-Related Items, may be paid to Optionee in U.S. Dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion.  In the event the proceeds are paid to Optionee in U.S. Dollars, Optionee understands that he or she will be required to set up a U.S. Dollar bank account in China and provide the bank account details to the Employer and/or the Company so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. In addition, Optionee understands and agrees that Optionee will be responsible for converting the proceeds into Renminbi Yuan at Optionee s expense.    
  If the proceeds are paid to Optionee in local currency, Optionee agrees to bear any currency fluctuation risk between the time the shares are sold and the time the sale proceeds are distributed through any such special exchange account.   
  Exchange Control Notice Applicable to Optionees in the PRC 
  Optionee understands that exchange control restrictions may limit Optionee s ability to access and/or convert funds received under the Plan, particularly if these amounts exceed US$50,000.  Optionee should confirm the procedures and requirements for withdrawals and conversions of foreign currency with his or her local bank prior to option exercise.  

Optionee agrees to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in the Peoples  Republic of China. 
  Foreign Asset Reporting Information  
  PRC residents are required to report to SAFE details of their foreign financial assets and liabilities, as well as details of any economic transactions conducted with non-PRC residents, either directly or through financial institutions. Optionee may be subject to reporting obligations for the Shares or awards acquired under the Plan and Plan-related transactions.  It is Optionee's responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and Optionee should consult his/her personal tax advisor in this regard. 
  OPTIONEES IN COLOMBIA 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement    The following provision supplements Section 10 of the Award Agreement: 
  Optionee acknowledges that pursuant to Article 128 of the Colombian Labor Code, the Plan, the Option, the underlying Shares, and any other amounts or payments granted or realized from participation in the Plan do not constitute a component of Optionee's  salary  for any purpose. To this extent, they will not be included and/or considered for purposes of calculating any and all labor benefits, such as legal/fringe benefits, vacations, indemnities, payroll taxes, social insurance contributions or any other labor-related amount which may be payable.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  Investments held abroad (including Shares issued at exercise) must be registered with the Central Bank of Colombia(Banco de la Rep blica) if the aggregate investment held by an individual (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year) equal or exceed a prescribed  threshold.    If the threshold is met or exceeded, Optionee must register the investments with the Central Bank by filing a Form No. 11 and submitting it to Se ores, Banco de la Rep blica, Atn: Jefe Secci n Inversiones, Departamento de Cambios Internacionales, Carrera 7 No. 14 - 18, Bogot , Colombia  by June 30 of the following year.  Upon the sale or disposition of the investments previously registered with the Central Bank, Optionee must cancel the registration by no later than March 31 of the year following the sale or disposition or certain fines could apply.   
  If the Optionee uses the cashless sell-all method of exercise, then no registration is required because no funds are remitted from Colombia and no shares are held abroad. 
  In addition, when Optionee sells or otherwise disposes of any Shares acquired under the Plan, Optionee may either choose to keep the resulting sums abroad, or to repatriate them to Colombia. If Optionee chooses to repatriate funds to Colombia and Optionee has not registered his or her investment with Banco de la Rep blica, Optionee will need to file with Banco de la Rep blica Form No. 5 upon conversion of funds into local currency, which should be duly completed to reflect the nature of the transaction. If Optionee has registered his or her investment with Banco de la Rep blica, then Optionee will need to file with Banco de la Rep blica Form No. 4 upon conversion of funds into local currency, which should be duly completed to reflect the nature of the transaction. 
  Optionee should consult his/her personal legal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable Colombian exchange control regulations.   
  OPTIONEES IN CZECH REPUBLIC 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Upon request of the Czech National Bank (the  CNB ), Optionee may be required to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the acquisition of Shares and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, Optionee should consult his or her personal legal advisor prior to the exercise of the Options and the subsequent sale of Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is Optionee s responsibility to comply with Czech exchange control laws, and neither the Company nor any Subsidiary or affiliate will be liable for any resulting fines or penalties. 
  OPTIONEES IN DENMARK 
  Danish Stock Option Act 
  By accepting this Award, the Optionee acknowledges that he or she has received a Danish translation of an Employer Statement, which is being provided to comply with the Danish Stock Option Act. 

Exchange Control Notice     
  The establishment of an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside Denmark must be reported to the Danish Tax Administration.  The form which should be used in this respect may be obtained from a local bank.  (Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the securities/tax reporting obligations described below.) 
  Securities/Tax Reporting Notice      
  If Optionee holds Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, Optionee is required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account.  For this purpose, Optionee must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration.  Both Optionee and the bank/broker must sign the Declaration V.  By signing the Declaration V, the bank/broker undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than on February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward certain information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, Optionee acknowledges that he or she is solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage account and Shares deposited therein to the Danish Tax Administration as part of his or her annual income tax return.  By signing the Form V, Optionee authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk. 
  In addition, if Optionee opens a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank) for the purpose of holding cash outside Denmark, Optionee is also required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about this account.  To do so, Optionee must also file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration.  The Form K must be signed both by Optionee and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.  By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than on February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward certain information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, Optionee acknowledges that he or she is solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of Optionee s annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, Optionee authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of Form K can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk. 
  OPTIONEES IN FRANCE 
  Consent to Receive Information in English 
  By accepting the Options, Optionee confirms having read and understood the Plan, the Notice of Grant, the Agreement and this Addendum, including all terms and conditions included therein, which were provided in the English language.  Optionee accepts the terms of those documents accordingly.   
  Consentement afin de Recevoir des Informations en Anglais 
  En acceptant les Options d'Achat d'Actions, le B n ficiaire confirme qu il ou elle a lu et compris le Plan, la Notification d Attribution, le Contrat et les pr sentes Annexes, en ce compris tous les termes et conditions y relatifs, qui sont fournis en langue anglaise. Le B n ficiaire accepte les termes de ces documents en connaissance de cause  . 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If the Optionee holds Shares outside of France or maintains a foreign bank account, he or she is required to report the maintenance of such to the French tax authorities when filing his or her annual tax return. 
  OPTIONEES IN GERMANY 
  Exchange Control Notice     
  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank (Bundesbank). If Optionee receives a payment in excess of  12,500 in connection with the sale of Shares under the Plan, Optionee must report the payment to Bundesbank electronically using the  General Statistics Reporting Portal  (Allgemeines Meldeportal Statistik) available in both German and English via Bundesbank s website (www.bundesbank.de).  Optionee is responsible for complying with applicable reporting requirements.   

OPTIONEES IN HONG KONG 
  Terms and Conditions     
  This provision supplements Section 3 of the Agreement: 
  If, for any reason, the Option vests and becomes exercisable and the Option is exercised and Shares are issued to the Optionee within six months of the date of grant, the Optionee agrees that he or she will not dispose of any such Shares prior to the six-month anniversary of the Date of Grant. 
  Wages 
  This provision supplements Section 18 of the Agreement: 
  The Options and Shares subject to it do not form part of Optionee s wages for purposes of calculating any statutory or contractual payment under Hong Kong law.  
  Securities Law Notice 
  WARNING: The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. Optionee is advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If Optionee is in any doubt about any of the contents of this document, Optionee should obtain independent professional advice.  Neither the offer of Options nor the issuance of Shares upon exercise of the Options constitutes a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and is available only to employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries.  The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials distributed in connection with the Options (i) have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong and (ii) are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Company or its subsidiaries and may not be distributed to any other person. 
  OPTIONEES IN INDIA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Optionee must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares and any cash dividends acquired under the Plan to India and convert the proceeds into local currency within a certain period of the receipt (90 days for sale proceeds and 180 days for dividend payments).  Optionee will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate ( FIRC ) from the bank where Optionee deposits the foreign currency.  Optionee should maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of funds in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  
  Because exchange control regulations can change frequently and without notice, Optionee should consult his or her personal legal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is Optionee s responsibility to comply with exchange control laws in India, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Optionee s failure to comply with applicable local laws. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  The Optionee is required to declare foreign bank accounts and any foreign financial assets (including Shares held outside India) in his or her annual tax return.  It is the Optionee s responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and the Optionee should consult with his or her personal tax advisor in this regard as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance. 
  OPTIONEES IN ITALY 
  Data Privacy 
  This provision replaces the data privacy section in the Agreement: 
  Optionee understands that the Company and his or her employer, as the Privacy Representative of the Company in Italy, may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of common stock or directorships held in the Company or its Subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures details of all Awards or any other entitlement to shares of common stock awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Optionee s favor, and that the Company and his employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from a third party ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation.  

Optionee also understands that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that his denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect his ability to participate in the Plan. The Controller of personal data processing is Danaher Corporation, with registered offices at 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Suite 800W, Washington, DC 20037. 
  Optionee understands that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by Optionee s employer and within the employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by the data processor, if appointed. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Personal Data are communicated will remain available upon request at Optionee s employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan.  Optionee understands that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. Optionee further understands that the Company or its Subsidiaries or affiliates will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of the Optionee s participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its Subsidiaries or affiliates may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to a broker or other third party with whom he or she may elect to deposit any shares acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such shares.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan.  Optionee understands that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.   
  Optionee understands that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
  The processing activity, including the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require Optionee s consent thereto as the it is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan. Optionee understands that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, Optionee has the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not; access and verify its contents, origin and accuracy; delete, update, integrate or correct Personal Data; or block or stop, for legitimate reason, Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, Optionee should contact his or her  employer. Furthermore, Optionee is aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting Optionee s employer human resources department. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgement 
  In accepting the Option, Optionee acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan and the Agreement and has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum. 
  Optionee further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the following paragraphs of the Agreement: Tax Obligations; No Employment Contract; Nature of Grant; Language; Governing Law and Venue; and the Data Privacy paragraph included in this Addendum. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  Italian residents who, at any time during the fiscal year, hold foreign financial assets (including cash and Shares) which may generate income taxable in Italy are required to report these assets on their annual tax returns (UNICO Form, RW Schedule) for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due.  These reporting obligations will also apply to Italian residents who are the beneficial owners of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 

OPTIONEES IN JAPAN 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If the Optionee acquires Shares valued at more than  100,000,000 in a single transaction, the Optionee must file a Securities Acquisition Report with the Ministry of Finance through the Bank of Japan within 20 days of the purchase of the shares.  
  In addition, if the Optionee pays more than  30,000,000 in a single transaction for the purchase of shares when the Optionee exercises the Option, the Optionee must file a Payment Report with the Ministry of Finance through the Bank of Japan by the 20th day of the month following the month in which the payment was made.  The precise reporting requirements vary depending on whether or not the relevant payment is made through a bank in Japan.   
  A Payment Report is required independently from a Securities Acquisition Report.  Therefore, if the total amount that the Optionee pays upon a one time transaction for exercising the Option and purchasing shares exceeds  100,000,000, then the Optionee must file both a Payment Report and a Securities Acquisition Report.  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  The Optionee will be required to report details of any assets held outside of Japan as of December 31st (including any Shares acquired under the Plan) to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000.  Such report will be due by March 15th each year.  The Optionee should consult with his or her personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to the Optionee and whether the Optionee will be required to include details of any outstanding Option or Shares held by the Optionee in the report. 
  OPTIONEES IN KOREA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Exchange control laws require Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares to repatriate the sale proceeds back to Korea within three (3) years of the sale. 
  If Optionee remits funds to purchase Shares, the remittance must be  confirmed  by a foreign exchange bank in Korea.  To receive the confirmation, Optionee should submit the following to the foreign exchange bank: (i) a prescribed form application; (ii) the Agreement, Notice of Stock Option Gant and any other Plan documents received; and (iii) certificate of employment with the local employer.  Optionee should check with the bank to determine whether there are any additional requirements.   
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information   
  Korean residents must declare all foreign financial accounts (e.g., non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts) based in foreign countries that have not entered into an  inter-governmental agreement for automatic exchange of tax information  with Korea to the Korean tax authority and file a report with respect to such accounts if the value of such accounts exceeds KRW 1 billion (or an equivalent amount in foreign currency). Optionee should consult with Optionee's personal tax advisor for additional information about this reporting obligation, including whether or not there is an applicable inter-governmental agreement between Korea and the U.S. (or any other country where Optionee may hold any Shares or cash acquired in connection with the Plan. 
  OPTIONEES IN MEXICO 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement 
  These provisions supplement the labor law acknowledgement contained in the Agreement: 
  By accepting the Options, Optionee acknowledges that he or she understands and agrees that: (i) the Option is not related to the salary and other contractual benefits granted to Optionee by the Employer; and (ii) any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment. 
  Policy Statement 
  The invitation the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any time without any liability. 
  The Company, with registered offices at 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W, Washington, D.C., 20037, United States of America, is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and, in Optionee  case, the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way establish an employment relationship between Optionee and the Company since Optionee  

is participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is the Subsidiary employing Optionee, as applicable, nor does it establish any rights between Optionee and the Employer. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgment 
  By accepting the Option grant, Optionee acknowledges that he or she has received copies of the Plan, has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.   
  In addition, by signing the Agreement, Optionee further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the terms and conditions in the Nature of Grant, Section 18 of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the Plan is offered by the Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and its Subsidiaries are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the Option.  
  Finally, Optionee hereby declares that he or she does not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages as a result of participation in the Plan and therefore grants a full and broad release to the Employer and the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan. 
  Spanish Translation 
  Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral 
  Estas disposiciones complementan el reconocimiento de la ley laboral contenida en el Acuerdo: 
  Por medio de la aceptaci n de la Opci n, quien tiene la opci n manifiesta que entiende y acuerda que: (i) la Opci n no se encuentra relacionada con el salario ni con otras prestaciones contractuales concedidas al que tiene la opci n por parte del patr  y (ii) cualquier modificaci n del Plan o su terminaci n no constituye un cambio o desmejora en los t rminos y condiciones de empleo. 
  Declaraci n de Pol tica  
  La invitaci n por parte de la Compa  a bajo el Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compa  a se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad. 
  La Compa  a, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W, Washington, D.C., 20037, United States of America, es la  nica responsable de la administraci n del Plan y de la participaci n en el mismo y, en el caso del que tiene la opci n, la adquisici n de Acciones no establece de forma alguna, una relaci n de trabajo entre el que tiene la opci n y la Compa  a, ya que la participaci n en el Plan por parte del que tiene la opci n es completamente comercial y el  nico patr n es la Subsidiaria que esta contratando al que tiene la opci n, en caso de ser aplicable, as  como tampoco establece ning n derecho entre el que tiene la opci n y el patr n. 
  Reconocimiento del Plan de Documentos 
  Por medio de la aceptaci n de la Opci n, el que tiene la opci n reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, que el mismo ha sido revisado al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo. 
  Adicionalmente, al firmar el Acuerdo, el que tiene la opci n reconoce que ha le do, y que aprueba espec fica y expresamente los t rminos y condiciones contenidos en la Naturaleza del Otorgamiento, Apartado 15 del Acuerdo, secci n en la cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la participaci n en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participaci n en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compa  a de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la participaci n en el Plan es voluntaria; y (iv) la Compa  a, as  como sus Subsidiarias no son responsables por cualquier detrimento en el valor de las Acciones en relaci n con la Opci n. 
  Finalmente, por medio de la presente quien tiene la opci n declara que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la Compa  a por compensaci n, da o o perjuicio alguno como resultado de la participaci n en el Plan y en consecuencia, otorga el m s amplio finiquito a su patr n, as  como a la Compa  a, a sus Subsidiarias con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan. 

OPTIONEES IN THE NETHERLANDS 
  Labor Law Acknowledgment 
  By accepting the Option, Optionee acknowledges that: (i) the Option is intended as an incentive for the Optionee to remain employed with the Employer and is not intended as remuneration for labor performed; and (ii) the Option is not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation. 
  OPTIONEES IN NEW ZEALAND 
  Securities Law Notice  
  In compliance with New Zealand securities laws, the Optionee is hereby notified that the following information is available for review in connection with the offer to purchase Shares under the Plan: 
           (i) 
    the Agreement, including this Appendix, which together with the Plan sets forth the terms and conditions of participation in the Plan;  
              (ii) 
    a copy of the Company s most recent annual return (  i.e.,   Form 10-K) and most recent financial reports; and  
              (iii) 
    a copy of the Plan and a description of the Plan (the    Description   ) (  i.e.,   the Company s Form S-8 Plan Prospectus under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended); the Company will provide any attachments or documents incorporated by reference into the Description upon written request.   
     The Optionee may request copies of the documents described above by contacting Danaher s corporate legal department using the contact details provided on www.danaher.com.  The documents incorporated by reference into the Description are updated periodically.  The Optionee understands that should he or she request copies of the documents incorporated by reference into the Description, the Company will provide the Optionee with the most recent documents incorporated by reference. 
  Warning Statement 
  Optionee is being offered an Option to purchase Shares in the Company.  Exercise of the Option will give Optionee a stake in the ownership of the Company.  Optionee may receive a return if  dividends are paid.   
  If the Company runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, Optionee will be paid only after all creditors (and holders of preference shares) have been paid. Optionee may lose some or all of his or her investment.   
  New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors before they invest.  This requires those offering financial products to have disclosure information that is important for investors to make an informed decision.   
  The usual rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme. As a result, Optionee may not be given all of the information usually required.  Optionee will also have fewer other legal protections for this investment.  
  Ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before committing to this investment. 
  The Shares are quoted.  The Company intends to quote the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.  This means Optionee may be able to sell them on the New York Stock Exchange if there are interested buyers. Optionee may get less than he or she invested. The price will depend on the demand for the Shares 
  OPTIONEES IN POLAND 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland on transactions and balances of the securities deposited in such accounts if the value of such transactions or balances (calculated individually or together with other assets or liabilities held abroad) exceeds PLN 7,000,000.  If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis.  Polish residents are also required to transfer funds through a bank account in Poland if the transferred amount in any single transaction exceeds a specified threshold (currently  15,000).  Further, upon the request of a Polish bank, Polish residents are required to inform the bank about all foreign exchange transactions performed through such bank. Optionee should maintain evidence of such foreign exchange transactions for five (5) years, in case of a request for their production by the National Bank of Poland. 

OPTIONEES IN ROMANIA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If Optionee deposits the proceeds from the sale of Shares issued to him or her at exercise and settlement of the Shares in a bank account in Romania, Optionee may be required to provide the Romanian bank with appropriate documentation explaining the source of the funds.  
  Optionee should consult his or her personal advisor to determine whether Optionee will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
  English Language  
  Optionee hereby expressly agrees that this Agreement, the Plan as well as all documents, notices and proceedings entered into, relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up or communicated only in the English language.  
  Angajatul consimte  n mod expres prin prezentul ca acest Contract, Programul precum  i orice alte documente, notific ri,  n tiin  ri legate direct sau indirect de acest Contract s  fie redactate sau efectuate doar   n limba englez . 
  OPTIONEES IN RUSSIA 
  Securities Law Notification 
  The Plan and all other materials that Optionee may receive concerning the grant of the Option and Optionee's participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia.  The Shares to be issued upon exercise of the Option have not and will not be registered in Russia and, therefore, the Shares described in any Plan documents may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.  In no event will Shares to be issued upon exercise of the Option be delivered to Optionee in Russia.  All Shares acquired under the Plan will be maintained on Optionee's behalf outside of Russia.  Optionee will not be permitted to sell Shares directly to a Russian legal entity or resident. 
  Exchange Control Notification 
  If Optionee remits funds out of Russia to purchase Shares under the Plan, the funds must be remitted from a foreign currency account in Optionee's name at an authorized bank in Russia.  In addition, Optionee must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares to Russia.  Such funds must be initially credited to Optionee through a foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia.  After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks in accordance with Russian exchange control laws.  However, dividends can be held in a foreign currency account at a foreign individual bank account opened in certain countries (including the United States).  Optionee should contact his or her personal advisor regarding Optionee's exchange control obligations resulting from participation in the Plan as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance with such obligations. 
  Data Privacy.    This data privacy consent replaces the data privacy section of the Agreement: 
                     1. 
    Purposes for processing of the Personal Data 
    1. 
                                       
      1.1. 
    Granting to the Optionee restricted share units or rights to purchase shares of common stock. 
    1.1. 
                                                                            (Option)                                    . 
      1.2. 
    Compliance with the effective Russian Federation laws; 
    1.2. 
                                                                  
      2. 
    The Optionee hereby grants consent to processing of the personal data listed below 
    2. 
                                                                                                            
      2.1. 
    Last name, first name, patronymic, year, month, date and place of birth, gender, age, address, citizenship, information on education, contact details (home address(es), direct office, home and mobile telephone numbers, e-mail address, etc.), photographs; 
    2.1. 
           ,    ,         ,    ,      ,                      ,    ,        ,      ,            ,                        ,                       (        ( )      ( ),                        ,                                 ,                             .),            

2.2. 
    Information contained in personal identification documents (including passport details), tax identification number and number of the State Pension Insurance Certificate, including photocopies of passports, visas, work permits, drivers licenses, other personal documents; 
    2.2. 
            ,                          ,                        ,                              ,                                                                              ,                                ,    ,                     ,                           ,                          
      2.3. 
    Information on employment, including the list of duties, information on the current and former employers, information on promotions, disciplinary sanctions, transfer to other position / work, etc.; 
    2.3. 
                                      ,                                ,                                             ,                      ,                          ,                              /      ,    .  
      2.4. 
    Information on the Optionee s salary amount, information on salary changes, on participation in employer benefit plans and programs, on bonuses paid, etc.; 
    2.4. 
                                                                      ,                                     ,                                                            ,                                 ,    .  
      2.5. 
    Information on work time, including hours scheduled for work per week and hours actually worked; 
    2.5. 
                              ,                                                                                                                       
      2.6. 
    Information on potential membership of certain categories of employees having rights for guarantees and benefits in accordance with the Russian Federation Labor Code and other effective legislation; 
    2.6. 
                                                                  ,                                                                                                                                        
      2.7. 
    Information on the Optionee s tax status (exempt, tax resident status, etc.);  
    2.7. 
                                                                (                              ,                                     . .); 
      2.8. 
    Information on shares of Common Stock or directorships held by the Optionee, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding; 
    2.8. 
                                                                                                   ,                                                                                   ,                           ,             ,          ,         ,                                . 
      2.9. 
    Any other information, which may become necessary to the Company in connection with the purposes specified in Clause 3 above. 
    2.9. 
                     ,                                                                      ,              . 3     . 

the    Personal Data    

3.1. 
    The Optionee hereby consents to performing the following operations with the Personal Data: 
    3.1. 
                                                                                                                         : 
      3.1.1 
    processing of the Personal Data, including collection, systematization, accumulation, storage, verification (renewal, modification), use, dissemination (including transfer), impersonalizing, blockage, destruction; 
    3.1.1. 
                                 ,             ,               ,           ,         ,           (          ,          ),              ,                 (                    ),              ,             ,                                 
      3.1.2 
    transborder transfer of the Personal Data to operators located on the territory of foreign states.  The Optionee hereby confirms that he was notified of the fact that the recipients of the Personal Data may be located in foreign states that do not ensure adequate protection of rights of personal data subjects; 
    3.1.2. 
                                                                                                     .                                                   ,                           ,                                                                               ,                                                                        

3.1.3 
    including Personal Data into generally accessible sources of personal data (including directories, address books and other), placing Personal Data on the Company s web-sites on the Internet.   
    3.1.3. 
                                                                                (                       ,                   . .),                                                                    . 

3.2. 
    General description of the data processing methods used by the Company 
    3.2. 
                                          (   )                                        
      3.2.1.  When processing the Personal Data, the     Company     undertakes the necessary organizational and technical measures for protecting the Personal Data from unlawful or accidental access to them, from destruction, change, blockage, copying, dissemination of Personal Data, as well as from other unlawful actions.    
    3.2.1.                                                                                                                                                                                     ,            ,          ,             ,            ,                                    ,                                       . 
      3.2.2.  Processing of the Personal Data by the Company shall be performed using the data processing methods that ensure confidentiality of the Personal Data, except where: (1) Personal Data is impersonalized; and (2) in relation to publicly available Personal Data; and in compliance with the established requirements to ensuring the security of personal data, the requirements to the tangible media of biometric personal data and to the technologies for storage of such data outside personal data information systems in accordance with the effective legislation. 
    3.2.2.                                                                               ,                                               ,                                 : (1)                                            (2)                                                                                                                                       ,                                                                                                                                                                                                        . 
      4. 
    Term, revocation procedure 
    4. 
        ,                
      This Statement of Consent is valid for an indefinite term. The Optionee may revoke this consent by sending to Company a written notice at least ninety (90) days in advance of the proposed consent revocation date.  The Optionee agrees that during the specified notice period the Company is not obliged to cease processing of personal data or to destroy the personal data of The Optionee.  
                                                                .                                                                                          (  )            (  )            (  )                 90 (         )                                                       .                                              ,                                        ( )          ( )                                                                                                       . 

OPTIONEES IN SINGAPORE 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of the Options is being made pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption  under section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ) and is not made to Optionee with a view to the Shares being subsequently offered for sale to any other party.  The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Optionee should note that the Options are subject to section 257 of the SFA and Optionee should not make (i) any subsequent sale of the Shares in Singapore or (ii) any offer of such subsequent sale of the Shares subject to the Option in Singapore, unless such sale or offer is made after six (6) months of the grant of the Option or pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the SFA. 
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement 
  If Optionee is a the Chief Executive Officer or director of a Singapore Subsidiary of the Company, Optionee must notify the Singapore Subsidiary in writing of an interest (  e.g.,   Options, Shares) in the Company or any Subsidiary within two days of (i) its acquisition or disposal, (ii) any change in a previously-disclosed interest (e.g., upon exercise of Options or when Shares acquired under the Plan are subsequently sold), or (iii) becoming the CEO / a director. 
  OPTIONEES IN SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  Optionee will not have a foreign asset or account reporting requirement unless Optionee is an independent entrepreneur (i.e., Optionee conducts business activities on his or her own behalf and holds a corresponding business/trade license).    

OPTIONEES IN SOUTH AFRICA 
  Withholding Taxes.    The following provision supplements Section 8(a) of the Agreement.   
  By accepting the Option, the Optionee agrees to notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized upon exercise of the Option.  If the Optionee fails to advise the Employer of the gain realized upon exercise of the Option, he or she may be liable for a fine.  The Optionee will be responsible for paying any difference between the actual tax liability and the amount withheld. 
  Tax Clearance Certificate for Cash Exercises.    If the Optionee exercises the Option by a cash purchase exercise, the Optionee is required to obtain and provide to the Employer, or any third party designated by the Employer or the Company, a Tax Clearance Certificate (with respect to Foreign Investments) bearing the official stamp and signature of the Exchange Control Department of the South African Revenue Service ( SARS ).  The Optionee must renew this Tax Clearance Certificate each twelve (12) months or in such other period as may be required by the SARS.   
  If the Optionee exercises the Option by a cashless exercise whereby no funds are remitted offshore for the purchase of shares, he or she is not required to obtain a Tax Clearance Certificate.   
  Exchange Control Notice 
  To participate in the Plan, the Optionee must comply with exchange control regulations and rulings (the  Exchange Control Regulations ) in South Africa.  
  Under current South African exchange control policy, South African residents may invest a maximum of ZAR11,000,000 per annum in offshore investments, including in Shares.  This limit does not apply to non-resident employees.  The first ZAR1,000,000 annual discretionary allowance requires no prior authorization but Optionee understands that Optionee must obtain tax clearance for the next ZAR10,000,000.  It is Optionee's responsibility to ensure that Optionee does not exceed this limit and obtain the necessary tax clearance for remittances exceeding ZAR1,000,000.  This limit is a cumulative allowance; therefore, Optionee's ability to remit funds for a cash exercise will be reduced if Optionee's foreign investment limit is utilized to make a transfer of funds offshore that is unrelated to the Plan.  Optionee acknowledges that if the ZAR11,000,000 limit will be exceeded as a result of a cash exercise under the Plan, Optionee may still participate in the Plan; however, Optionee will be required to immediately sell the Shares acquired under the Plan and repatriate the proceeds to South Africa in order to ensure that Optionee does not hold assets outside South Africa with a value in excess of the permitted offshore investment allowance amount.  
  Because the Exchange Control Regulations change frequently and without notice, the Optionee understands that he or she should consult a legal advisor prior to the purchase or sale of shares under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations.  The Optionee understands that it is his or her responsibility to comply with South African exchange control laws, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Securities Law Notice 
  In compliance with South African Securities Law, Optionee acknowledges that the documents listed below are available for review at the web addresses listed below: 
    Optionee understands that a copy of the above documents will be sent to Optionee free of charge on written request.   
  Optionee should carefully read the materials provided before making a decision whether to participate in the Plan and to contact Optionee s tax advisor for specific information concerning Optionee s personal tax situation with regard to Plan participation. 
  OPTIONEES IN SPAIN 
  Vesting Schedule 
  This provision supplements Section 2(a) of the Agreement. 
  The Optionee understands and agrees that, as a condition of the grant of the Option, upon the date that the Optionee ceases to be a Service Provider for any reason (including the reasons listed below), all Options that have not yet vested (or that do not become vested as a result of the Optionee s death) shall be forfeited.   

In particular, the Optionee understands and agrees that any Options that have not yet vested (or that do not become vested as a result of the Optionee s death) as of the date that the Optionee is no longer actively providing services shall be forfeited without entitlement to the underlying Shares or to any amount of indemnification in the event of the Optionee ceasing to be a Service Provider by reason of, but not limited to, resignation, retirement, disciplinary dismissal adjudged to be with cause, disciplinary dismissal adjudged or recognized to be without cause, individual or collective dismissal on objective grounds, whether adjudged or recognized to be with or without cause, material modification of the terms of employment under Article 41 of the Workers  Statute, relocation under Article 40 of the Workers  Statute, Article 50 of the Workers  Statute, unilateral withdrawal by the Employer and under Article 10.3 of the Royal Decree 1382/1985.   
  Nature of Plan 
  This provision supplements Section 18 of the Agreement.  In accepting the grant, Optionee acknowledges that he or she consents to participation in the Plan and has received a copy of the Plan. 
  Optionee understands that the Company, in its sole discretion, has unilaterally and gratuitously decided to grant Options under the Plan to individuals who may be Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary throughout the world.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or Subsidiary on an ongoing basis.  Consequently, Optionee understands that the Option is granted on the assumption and condition that the Option and the Shares issued upon exercise of the Option shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or a Subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.   
  In addition, Optionee understands that the grant of the Option would not be made to Optionee but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, Optionee acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any Option grant shall be null and void. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares (  i.e.,   as a result of the sale of the Shares), Optionee must inform the financial institution receiving the payment, the basis upon which such payment is made. Optionee will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) his or her name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of Company; (iii) the amount of the payment; (iv) the currency used; (v) the country of origin; (vi) the reasons for the payment; and (vii) additional information that may be required. 
  If Optionee wishes to import the ownership title of the Shares (  i.e.  , share certificates) into Spain, he or she must declare the importation of such securities to the Direcci n General de Pol tica Comercial e Inversiones Exteriores. To participate in the Plan, Optionee must comply with exchange control regulations in Spain that require that the purchase of Shares be declared for statistical purposes.  If a Spanish financial institution executes the transaction, the institution will automatically make the declaration on Optionee s behalf; otherwise, it is Optionee s responsibility to make the declaration.  In addition, Optionee must file a declaration of ownership of foreign securities each January. 
  In addition, Optionee may be required to electronically declare to the Bank of Spain any foreign accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), any foreign instruments (including Shares acquired under the Plan), and any transactions with non-Spanish residents (including any payments of Shares made pursuant to the Plan), depending on the balances in such accounts together with the value of such instruments as of December 31 of the relevant year, or the volume of transactions with non-Spanish residents during the relevant year. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  To the extent Optionee holds rights or assets (e.g., cash or Shares held in a bank or brokerage account) outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 per type of right or asset as of December 31 each year (or at any time during the year in which Optionee sells or disposes of such right or asset), Optionee is required to report information on such rights and assets on his or her tax return for such year.  After such rights or assets are initially reported, the reporting obligation will only apply for subsequent years if the value of any previously-reported rights or assets increases by more than  20,000. The reporting must be completed by the following March 31. 
  Spanish Translation 
  Translations of the Agreement and this Addendum in Spanish can be provided to Optionee upon request. 
  Se le facilitar  una traducci n al castellano de la documentaci n del incentivo (Award) si as  lo solicitase. 

OPTIONEES IN SWITZERLAND 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of Options is considered a private offering in Switzerland and is therefore not subject to securities registration in Switzerland. Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the Options constitute a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document nor any other material relating to the Options may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland.  
  OPTIONEES IN TAIWAN 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of Options and the Shares to be issued under the Plan is available only for employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries. It is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company; therefore, it is exempt from registration in Taiwan. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Optionee may acquire foreign currency, and remit the same out of Taiwan, up to US$5 million per year without justification.  When remitting funds for the purchase of Shares pursuant to the Plan, such remittances should be made through an authorized foreign exchange bank.  In addition, if Optionee remits TWD$500,000 or more in a single transaction, he or she must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank.  If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more in a single transaction, Optionee also must provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. 
  OPTIONEES IN THAILAND 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Optionee must immediately repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares and any cash dividends received in relation to the Shares to Thailand and convert the funds to Thai Baht within 360 days of receipt.  If the repatriated amount is US$50,000 or more, Optionee must report the inward remittance by submitting the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to an authorized agent,   i.e.,   a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency. 
  It is Optionee s responsibility to comply with exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any Subsidiary or affiliate will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Optionee s failure to comply with applicable laws.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, Optionee should consult a legal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  
  OPTIONEES IN TURKEY 
  Securities Law Notice 
  Under Turkish law, the Optionee is not permitted to sell Shares acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The Shares are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey and the Shares may be sold through this exchange. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  The Optionee may be required to engage a Turkish financial intermediary to assist with the cash exercise of an Option or the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. To the extent a Turkish financial intermediary is required in connection with the Option exercise or the sale of any Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option, the Optionee is solely responsible for engaging such Turkish financial intermediary.  The Optionee should consult his or her personal legal advisor prior to the exercise of Option or any sale of Shares to ensure compliance with the current requirements. 
  OPTIONEES IN UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
  Securities Law Notice     
  Participation in the Plan is being offered only to selected Optionees and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to Optionees in the United Arab Emirates.  The Plan and the Agreement are intended for distribution only to such Optionees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities.  If Optionee does not understand the contents of the Plan and the Agreement, Optionee should consult an authorized financial adviser. The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with the Plan.  Neither the Ministry of Economy nor the Dubai Department of Economic Development  

have approved the Plan or the Agreement nor taken steps to verify the information set out therein, and have no responsibility for such documents. 
  OPTIONEES IN THE UNITED KINGDOM 
  The following replaces Section 8(a) of the Agreement in its entirety: 
  (a)      Withholding Taxes  .  Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing Optionee (the  Employer ) take with respect to any or all income tax, primary and secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions, payroll tax or other tax-related withholding attributable to or payable in connection with or pursuant to the grant, vesting, exercise, release or assignment of any Option (the  Tax-Related Items ), Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the Option is and remains Optionee s responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee s liability for Tax Related Items.  Further, if Optionee has relocated to a different jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  As a condition of the issuance of Shares upon exercise of the Option, the Company and/or the Employer shall be entitled to withhold and Optionee agrees to pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy, all obligations of the Company and/or the Employer to account to HM Revenue   Customs ( HMRC ) for any Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted under local law, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by Optionee by one or a combination of the following:  (i) require Optionee to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check; (ii) withholding cash from Optionee s wages or other compensation payable to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) withholding from the proceeds of a broker-dealer sale and remittance procedure as described in Section 4(b) above; or (iv) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to Optionee, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount or such other amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event.   
  Optionee shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to account to HMRC with respect to the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items (the  Chargeable Event ) that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  If payment or withholding is not made within 90 days after the end of the UK tax year in which the Chargeable Event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the  Due Date ), Optionee agrees that the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall (assuming Optionee is not a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)), constitute a loan owed by Optionee to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. Optionee agrees that the loan will bear interest at the then-current HMRC Official Rate and it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to above.  If any of the foregoing methods of collection are not allowed under applicable laws or if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Section, the Company may refuse to deliver the Shares acquired under the Plan. 

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 dhr-20161231xexx107.htm
 2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RSU AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.7 
  DANAHER CORPORATION 
  2007 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Danaher Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) will have the same defined meanings in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ). 
           I. 
    NOTICE OF GRANT 
     Name: 
  Address: 
  The undersigned Participant has been granted an Award of Restricted Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, as follows (each of the following capitalized terms are defined terms having the meaning indicated below): 
                   Date of Grant 

Number of Restricted Stock Units 

Vesting Schedule: 

Time-Based Vesting Criteria 
      
    The time-based vesting criteria will be satisfied with respect to [_________]% of the shares underlying the RSUs on each of the [_________] anniversaries of the Date of Grant. 

Performance Objective 
      
    Set forth on Addendum A (if applicable) 

II. 
    AGREEMENT 
     1.  Grant of RSUs  . Danaher Corporation (the  Company ) hereby grants to the Participant named in this Notice of Grant (the  Participant ), an Award of Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail. 
  2.  Vesting  . 
  (a)      Vesting Schedule  .  Except as may otherwise be set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan, with respect to each Tranche of RSUs granted under this Agreement (a  Tranche  consists of all RSUs as to which the Time-Based Vesting Criteria are scheduled to be satisfied on the same date), the Tranche shall not vest unless (i) the Participant continues to be actively employed with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary for the period required to satisfy the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to such Tranche (the date on which the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to a Tranche are scheduled to be satisfied is the  Time-Based Vesting Date ), and (ii) the Performance Objective applicable to such RSUs, if any, is satisfied on or prior to the Time-Based Vesting Date.  Vesting shall be determined separately for each Tranche.  The Performance Objective (if any) and Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to any Tranche are collectively referred to as  Vesting Conditions,  and the date upon which all Vesting Conditions applicable to that Tranche are satisfied is referred to as the  Vesting Date  for such Tranche.  The Vesting Conditions shall be established by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Company s Board of Directors (or by one or more members of Company management, if such power has been delegated in accordance with the Plan and applicable law) and reflected in the account maintained for the Participant by an external third party administrator of the RSU awards.  Further, during any approved leave of absence (and without limiting the application of any other rules governing leaves of absence that the Committee may approve from time to time pursuant to the Plan), to the extent permitted by applicable law the Committee shall have discretion to provide that the vesting of the RSUs shall be frozen as of the first day of the leave (or as of any subsequent day during such leave, as applicable) and shall not resume until and unless the Participant returns to active employment. 

(b)      Performance Objective  .  The Committee shall determine whether the Performance Objective applicable to an RSU, if any, has been met, and such determination shall be final and conclusive.  Until the Committee has made such a determination, the Performance Objective (if any) may not be considered to have been satisfied.  Notwithstanding any determination by the Committee that the Performance Objective (if any) has been attained with respect to a particular Tranche, such Tranche shall not be considered to have vested unless and until the Participant has satisfied the Time-Based Vesting Criteria applicable to such Tranche. 
  (c)      Fractional RSU Vesting  .  In the event the Participant is vested in a fractional portion of an RSU (a  Fractional Portion ), such Fractional Portion will be rounded up and converted into a whole share of Common Stock ( Share ) and issued to the Participant.  
  (d)      Addenda  .  The provisions of Addendum A (if any) and Addendum B are incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this Agreement, and to the extent any provision in Addendum A (if any) or Addendum B conflicts with any provision set forth elsewhere in this Agreement (including without limitation any provisions relating to Retirement), the provision set forth in Addendum A (if any) or Addendum B shall control. 
  3.  Form and Timing of Payment; Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . 
  (a)      Form and Timing of Payment  .  The Award of RSUs represents the right to receive a number of Shares equal to the number of RSUs that vest pursuant to the Vesting Conditions.  Unless and until the RSUs have vested in the manner set forth in Sections 2 and 4, Participant shall have no right to payment of any such RSUs.  Prior to actual issuance of any Shares underlying the RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. Subject to the other terms of the Plan and this Agreement, any Tranche that vests in accordance with Sections 2 and 4 will be paid to the Participant in whole Shares within 90 days of the Vesting Date for that Tranche.  Shares shall not be issued under the Plan unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares comply with (or are exempt from) all applicable requirements of law, including (without limitation) the Securities Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws and regulations, and the regulations of any stock exchange or other securities market on which the Company s securities may then be traded.  The Committee may require the Participant to take any reasonable action in order to comply with any such rules or regulations.    
  (b)      Acknowledgment of Potential Securities Law Restrictions  .  Unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covers the Shares issued upon vesting of an RSU, the Committee may require that the Participant agree in writing to acquire such Shares for investment and not for public resale or distribution, unless and until the Shares subject to the Award are registered under the Securities Act.  The Committee may also require the Participant to acknowledge that he or she shall not sell or transfer such Shares except in compliance with all applicable laws, and may apply such other restrictions as it deems appropriate.  The Participant acknowledges that the U.S. federal securities laws prohibit trading in the stock of the Company by persons who are in possession of material, non-public information, and also acknowledges and understands the other restrictions set forth in the Company s Insider Trading Policy. 
  4.  Termination of Employment  . 
  (a)      General  .  In the event the Participant s active employment or other active service-providing relationship with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary terminates for any reason (other than death, Early Retirement or Normal Retirement) whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws, all RSUs that are unvested as of termination shall automatically terminate as of the date of termination and Participant s right to receive further RSUs under the Plan shall also terminate as of the date of termination.  The Committee shall have discretion to determine whether the Participant has ceased to be actively employed by (or, if the Participant is a consultant or director, has ceased actively providing services to) the Company or Eligible Subsidiary, and the effective date on which such active employment (or active service-providing relationship) terminated.  The Participant s active employer-employee or other active service-providing relationship will not be extended by any notice period mandated under applicable law (  e.g.,   active employment shall not include a period of  garden leave , paid administrative leave or similar period  pursuant to applicable law).  Unless the Committee provides otherwise (1) termination of the Participant s employment will include instances in which Participant is terminated and immediately rehired as an independent contractor, and (2) the spin off, sale, or disposition of the Participant s employer from the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary (whether by transfer of shares, assets or otherwise) such that the Participant s employer no longer constitutes an Eligible Subsidiary will constitute a termination of employment or service.   
  (b)      Death  .  Upon Participant s death, a pro rata amount of each unvested Tranche shall become vested based on the number of complete twelve-month periods between the Date of Grant and the date of the Participant s death divided by the total number of twelve-month periods between the Date of Grant and the Time-Based Vesting Date applicable to such Tranche.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, for purposes of this Section, any partial twelve- 

month period between the Date of Grant and the date of death shall be considered a complete twelve-month period and any Fractional Portion that results from applying the pro rata methodology shall be rounded up to a whole Share.   
  (c)      Retirement  . 
  (i)    Upon termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Early Retirement, unless contrary to applicable law and unless otherwise provided by the Committee either initially or subsequent to the grant of the relevant Award, with respect to each Tranche that is unvested as of the Early Retirement date, a pro-rata portion of such Tranche (i.e. based on the ratio of (x) the number of full or partial months worked by the Participant from the Date of Grant to the Early Retirement date to (y) the total number of months in the original time-based vesting schedule of such Tranche) will vest as of the Time-Based Vesting Date for such Tranche, but if and only if the Performance Objective (if any) is satisfied on or prior to such Time-Based Vesting Date.   
  (ii)    Upon termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Normal Retirement, unless contrary to applicable law and unless otherwise provided by the Committee either initially or subsequent to the grant of the relevant Award, with respect to each Tranche that is unvested as of the Normal Retirement date, such Tranche will vest as of the Time-Based Vesting Date for such Tranche, but if and only if the Performance Objective (if any) is satisfied on or prior to such Time-Based Vesting Date. 
  (d)      Gross Misconduct  .  If the Participant s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary is terminated for Gross Misconduct, the Participant s unvested RSUs shall automatically terminate as of the time of termination without consideration.  The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the Participant s termination of employment shall also be deemed to be a termination of employment by reason of the Participant s Gross Misconduct if, after the Participant s employment has terminated, facts and circumstances are discovered or confirmed by the Company that would have justified a termination for Gross Misconduct. 
  (e)      Violation of Post-Employment Covenant  .  To the extent that any of the Participant s RSUs remain outstanding under the terms of the Plan or this Agreement after termination of the Participant s employment with the Company or an Eligible Subsidiary, such RSUs shall expire as of the date the Participant violates any covenant not to compete or other post-employment covenant that exists between the Participant on the one hand and the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, on the other hand. 
  (f)      Substantial Corporate Change  .  Upon a Substantial Corporate Change, the Participant s unvested RSUs will terminate unless provision is made in writing in connection with such transaction for the assumption or continuation of the RSUs, or the substitution for such RSUs of any options or grants covering the stock or securities of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary of such successor, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares of stock and prices, in which event the RSUs will continue in the manner and under the terms so provided.       
  5.  Non-Transferability of RSUs  .  Unless the Committee determines otherwise in advance in writing, RSUs may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the applicable laws of descent or distribution. The terms of the Plan and this Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs and permitted successors and assigns of the Participant. 
  6.  Amendment of RSUs or Plan  . 
  (a)  The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Participant with respect to the subject matter hereof.  Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein.  The Company s Board may amend, modify or terminate the Plan or any Award in any respect at any time; provided, however, that modifications to this Agreement or the Plan that materially and adversely affect the Participant s rights hereunder can be made only in an express written contract signed by the Company and the Participant.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Company reserves the right to revise this Agreement and Participant s rights under outstanding RSUs as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Participant, (1) upon a Substantial Corporate Change, (2) as required by law, or (3) to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( Section 409A ) or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under Section 409A in connection with this Award. 
  (b)    The Participant acknowledges and agrees that if the Participant changes classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee the Committee may in its sole discretion  reduce or eliminate the Participant s unvested RSUs. 

7.  Tax Obligations  .   
  (a)      Withholding Taxes  .  Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing the Participant (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any or all federal, state, local or foreign income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax related items ( Tax Related Items ), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the RSUs is and remains the Participant s responsibility and that the Company and the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to, the grant or vesting of the RSUs, the delivery of the Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate the Participant s liability for Tax Related Items.  Further, if Participant is subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction, Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  Prior to the relevant taxable event, Participant shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer (in its sole discretion) to satisfy all withholding and payment on account obligations for Tax Related Items of the Company and/or the Employer.  In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and the Employer, or either of them, in such entity s sole discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by the Participant (with respect to the award granted hereunder as well as any equity awards previously received by the Participant under any Company stock plan) by one or a combination of the following:  (i) requiring the Participant to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check or by wire transfer of immediately available funds; (ii) withholding cash from the Participant s wages or other compensation payable to the Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant upon payment on the RSUs (on Participant s behalf and at Participant s direction pursuant to this authorization), including the sale of Shares prior to such scheduled payment date; (iv) withholding from the proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon payment on the RSUs; or (v) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount (or if there is no minimum statutory withholding amount, such amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment) using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event.  Participant shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan that are not satisfied by any of the means previously described.  For the avoidance of doubt, in no event will the Company and/or Employer withhold more than the minimum amount of Tax Related Items required by law (or if there is no minimum statutory withholding amount, such amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment), nor shall any Participant have the right to require the Company and/or Employer to withhold more than such amount.  The Company may refuse to deliver the Shares to the Participant if the Participant fails to comply with Participant s obligations in connection with the Tax Related Items as described in this Section.  
  (b)      Code Section 409A  . Payments made pursuant to this Plan and the Agreement are intended to qualify for an exemption from or comply with Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement,  the Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Agreement to ensure that all RSUs granted to Participants who are United States taxpayers are made in such a manner that either qualifies for exemption from or complies with Section 409A; provided, however, that the Company makes no representations that the Plan or the RSUs shall be exempt from or comply with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Plan or any RSUs granted thereunder.  If this Agreement fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on the Participant by Section 409A, and the Participant shall have no recourse against the Company or any of its affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty or interest imposed by Section 409A. 
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, these provisions shall apply to any payments and benefits otherwise payable to or provided to the Participant under this Agreement.  For purposes of Section 409A, each  payment  (as defined by Section 409A) made under this Agreement shall be considered a  separate payment.   In addition, for purposes of Section 409A, payments shall be deemed exempt from the definition of deferred compensation under Section 409A to the fullest extent possible under (i) the  short-term deferral  exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4), and (ii) (with respect to amounts paid as separation pay no later than the second calendar year following the calendar year containing the Participant s  separation from service  (as defined for purposes of Section 409A)) the  two years/two-times  involuntary separation pay exemption of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii), which are hereby incorporated by reference. 
  For purposes of making a payment under this Agreement, if any amount is payable as a result of a Substantial Corporate Change, such event must also constitute a  change in ownership or effective control  of the Company or a  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A. 

If the Participant is a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A (and as applied according to procedures of the Company and its affiliates) as of his separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Agreement constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Section 409A), and such payment is payable by reason of a separation from service, then to the extent required by Section 409A, no payments due under this Agreement may be made until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s separation from service, or (ii) the Participant s date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following the Participant s separation from service.   
  8.  Rights as Shareholder  .  Until all requirements for vesting of the RSUs pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan have been satisfied, the Participant shall not be deemed to be a shareholder of the Company, and shall have no dividend rights or voting rights with respect to the RSUs or any Shares underlying or issuable in respect of such RSUs until such Shares are actually issued to the Participant.   
  9.  No Employment Contract  .  Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement constitutes an employment contract between the Company and the Participant and this Agreement shall not confer upon the Participant any right to continuation of employment with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, nor shall this Agreement interfere in any way with the Company s or any of its Subsidiaries right to terminate the Participant s employment or at any time, with or without cause (subject to any employment agreement a Participant may otherwise have with the Company or a Subsidiary thereof and/or applicable law).  
  10.  Board Authority  .  The Board and/or the Committee shall have the power to interpret this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Agreement as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether any RSUs have vested).  All interpretations and determinations made by the Board and/or the Committee in good faith shall be final and binding upon Participant, the Company and all other interested persons and such determinations of the Board and/or the Committee do not have to be uniform nor do they have to consider whether Plan participants are similarly situated.  No member of the Board and/or the Committee shall be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to this Agreement.   
  11.  Headings  .  The captions used in this Agreement and the Plan are inserted for convenience and shall not be deemed to be a part of the RSUs for construction and interpretation. 
  12.  Electronic Delivery  . 
  (a)    If the Participant executes this Agreement electronically, for the avoidance of doubt Participant acknowledges and agrees that his or her execution of this Agreement electronically (through an on-line system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company, or otherwise) shall have the same binding legal effect as would execution of this Agreement in paper form.  Participant acknowledges that upon request of the Company he or she shall also provide an executed, paper form of this Agreement. 
  (b)    If the Participant executes this Agreement in paper form, for the avoidance of doubt the parties acknowledge and agree that it is their intent that any agreement previously or subsequently entered into between the parties that is executed electronically shall have the same binding legal effect as if such agreement were executed in paper form. 
  (c)    If Participant executes this Agreement multiple times (for example, if the Participant first executes this Agreement in electronic form and subsequently executes this Agreement in paper form), the Participant acknowledges and agrees that (i) no matter how many versions of this Agreement are executed and in whatever medium, this Agreement only evidences a single Award relating to the number of RSUs set forth in the Notice of Grant and (ii) this Agreement shall be effective as of the earliest execution of this Agreement by the parties, whether in paper form or electronically, and the subsequent execution of this Agreement in the same or a different medium shall in no way impair the binding legal effect of this Agreement as of the time of original execution. 
  (d)    The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver by electronic means any documents related to the RSUs, to participation in the Plan, or to future awards granted under the Plan, or otherwise required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to the Plan or under applicable law, including but not limited to, the Plan, the Agreement, the Plan prospectus and any reports of the Company generally provided to shareholders.  Such means of electronic delivery may include, but do not necessarily include, the delivery of a link to the Company s intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of documents via electronic mail ( e-mail ) or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.  By executing this Agreement, the Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery.    At the Participant s written request to the Secretary of the Company, the Company shall provide a paper copy of any document at no cost to the Participant.   

13.  Data Privacy  .  Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her Data (as defined below) by and among, as necessary and applicable, the Employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan and in the Company s Amended 1998 Plan.   
  Participant understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but not limited to, Participant s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social security or insurance number or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, and job title, any Common Stock or directorships held in the Company, and  details of the RSUs or other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Participant s favor ( Data ), for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan.  Participant understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan, that these recipients may be located in Participant s country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipients  country may have different data privacy laws and protections than Participant s country.  Participant authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan and/or in the Amended 1998 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom Participant may elect to deposit any Shares acquired upon vesting and payment of the RSUs or other entitlement to Shares. 
  Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative. Participant understands that Data shall be held as long as is reasonably necessary to implement, administer and manage his or her participation in the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan, and he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  Further, Participant understands that Participant is providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If Participant does not consent, or if Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her employment status or service with his or her employer will not be adversely affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing Participant's consent is that the Company would not be able to grant RSUs or other equity awards to Participant or to administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, Participant understands that refusing or withdrawing such consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan and/or the Amended 1998 Plan.  In addition, Participant understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries have separately implemented procedures for the handling of Data which the Company believes permits the Company to use the Data in the manner set forth above notwithstanding the Participant s withdrawal of such consent.  For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.       
  14.  Waiver of Right to Jury Trial  .  Each party, to the fullest extent permitted by law, waives any right or expectation against the other to trial or adjudication by a jury of any claim, cause or action arising with respect to the RSUs or hereunder, or the rights, duties or liabilities created hereby.   
  15.  Agreement Severable  .  In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement. 
  16.  Governing Law and Venue  . The laws of the State of Delaware (other than its choice of law provisions) shall govern this Agreement and its interpretation.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises with respect to the RSUs, this Agreement or the Plan, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of New Castle County, or the United States Federal court for the District of Delaware, and no other courts; and waive, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that the laying of the venue of any legal or equitable proceedings related to, concerning or arising from such dispute which is brought in any such court is improper or that such proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum.  Any claim under the Plan, this Agreement or any Award must be commenced by a Participant within twelve (12) months of the earliest date on which the Participant s claim first arises, or the Participant s cause of action accrues, or such claim will be deemed waived by the Participant. 
  17.  Nature of RSUs  .  In accepting the RSUs, Participant acknowledges and agrees that: 
  (a)    the award of RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of RSUs, benefits in lieu of RSUs or other equity awards, even if RSUs have been awarded repeatedly in the past; 
  (b)    all decisions with respect to future equity awards, if any, shall be at the sole discretion of the Company; 

(c)    Participant s participation in the Plan is voluntary; 
  (d)    the award of RSUs and Shares subject to the RSUs, and the income and value of same, are an extraordinary item that (i) does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or any Subsidiary, and (ii) is outside the scope of Participant s employment or service contract, if any; 
  (e)    the award of RSUs and Shares subject to the RSUs, and the income and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or any Subsidiary; 
  (f)    unless otherwise expressly agreed with the Company, the RSUs and Shares subject to the RSUs, and the income and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, any service Participant may provide as a director of any Subsidiary; 
  (g)    the award of RSUs and Participant s participation in the Plan shall not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract with the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company; 
  (h)    the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; 
  (i)    the value of the Shares acquired upon vesting/settlement of the RSUs may increase or decrease in value; 
  (j)    in consideration of the award of RSUs, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Award or from any diminution in value of the Award or Shares upon vesting of the Award resulting from termination of Participant s employment or continuous service by the Company or any Subsidiary (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws of the jurisdiction where Participant is employed or the terms of Participant s employment agreement, if any, and whether or not later found to be invalid) and in consideration of the grant of the Award, Participant irrevocably releases the Company and any Subsidiary from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing the Agreement/electronically accepting the Agreement, Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Participant s entitlement to pursue or seek remedy for any such claim; 
  (k)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company in writing, the RSUs, the underlying Shares and the income and value of same are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, any service Participant may provide as a director of a Subsidiary or affiliate 
  (l)    the Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding Participant s participation in the Plan or Participant s acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares; and 
  (m)    Participant is hereby advised to consult with Participant s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Participant s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
  18.  Language  .  If Participant has received the Plan, this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control, unless otherwise prescribed by applicable law. 
  19.  Severability  .  The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 
  20.  Waiver  . Participant acknowledges that a waiver by the Company of breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by Participant or any other participant. 
  21.  Insider Trading/Market Abuse Laws  .  Participant acknowledges that, depending on Participant's country, Participant may be subject to insider trading restrictions and/or market abuse laws, which may affect his or her ability to acquire or sell Shares or rights to Shares (e.g., RSUs) under the Plan during such times as Participant is considered to have  inside information  regarding the Company (as defined by the laws in Participant's country).  Any restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be imposed under any applicable insider trading policy of the Company.  Participant acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to comply with any applicable restrictions, and Participant is advised to consult with his or her own personal legal and financial advisors on this matter. 

22.  Addendum B  .  The RSUs shall be subject to the special terms and provisions (if any) set forth in the Addendum B to this Agreement for Participant s country of residence.  Moreover, if Participant relocates to one of the countries included in the Addendum B, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to Participant, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with applicable law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not result in any adverse accounting expense with respect to the RSUs.  The Addendum B constitutes part of this Agreement. In addition, the Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the RSU and any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with applicable law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not result in any adverse accounting expense to the Company, and to require Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
  23.  Recoupment  .  The RSUs granted pursuant to this Agreement are subject to the terms of the Danaher Corporation Recoupment Policy as it exists from time to time (a copy of the Recoupment Policy as it exists from time to time is available on Danaher s internal website) (the  Policy ) if and to the extent such Policy by its terms applies to the RSUs, and to the terms required by applicable law; and the terms of the Policy and such applicable law are incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof. 
  24.  Notices  .  The Company may, directly or through its     third party stock plan administrator, endeavor to provide certain notices to Participant regarding certain events relating to awards that the Participant may have received or may in the future receive under the 1998 Plan and/or the Plan, such as  notices reminding Participant of the vesting or expiration date of certain awards.  Participant acknowledges and agrees that (1) the Company has no obligation (whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise) to provide any such notices; (2) to the extent the Company does provide any such notices to Participant the Company does not thereby assume any obligation to provide any such notices or other notices; and (3) the Company, its affiliates and the third party stock plan administrator have no liability for, and the Participant has no right whatsoever (whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise) to make any claim against the Company, any of its affiliates or the third party stock plan administrator based on any allegations of, damages or harm suffered by the Participant as a result of the Company s failure to provide any such notices or Participant s failure to receive any such notices. 
  25.  Consent and Agreement With Respect to Plans  .  Participant (1) acknowledges that the Plan and the prospectus relating thereto are available to Participant on the website maintained by the Company s third party stock plan administrator; (2) represents that he or she has read and is familiar with the terms and provisions thereof, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel of his or her choice prior to executing this Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Agreement and the Plan; (3) accepts these RSUs subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof; (4) consents and agrees to all amendments that have been made to the Plan since it was adopted in 2007 (and for the avoidance of doubt consents and agrees to each amended term reflected in the Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement), and consents and agrees that all options and restricted stock units, if any, held by Participant that were previously granted under the Plan as it has existed from time to time are now governed by the Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement (except to the extent the Committee has expressly provided that a particular Plan amendment does not apply retroactively); and (5) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Plan or this Agreement.  
  In addition, in consideration of the RSUs and by signing/electronically accepting this Agreement, the Participant agrees as follows with respect to any stock options or restricted stock units held by Participant that were previously granted under the Company s 1998 Stock Option Plan as it has existed from time to time: the Participant (1) acknowledges that the Company s Board of Directors approved an amended version of the 1998 Stock Option Plan in July 2009 and that the amended version of the 1998 Stock Option Plan (the  Amended 1998 Plan ) and the prospectus relating thereto are available to Participant on the website maintained by the Company s third party stock plan administrator; (2) represents that he or she has read the Amended 1998 Plan and the prospectus relating thereto and is familiar with the terms and provisions thereof, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel of his or her choice and fully understands all provisions of the Amended 1998 Plan; (3) consents and agrees to the Amended 1998 Plan (and for the avoidance of doubt consents and agrees to each amended term reflected in the Amended 1998 Plan); (4) consents and agrees that all options and restricted stock units, if any, held by Participant that were previously granted under the 1998 Stock Option Plan as it has existed from time to time are now governed by the Amended 1998 Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement; and (5) agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under the Amended 1998 Plan.  Participant further agrees to notify the Company upon any change in his or her residence address. 

[  If the Agreement is signed in paper form, complete and execute the following:  ] 
                   PARTICIPANT 
      
    DANAHER CORPORATION 

Signature 
      
    Signature 

Print Name 
      
    Print Name 

Title 

Residence Address 

ADDENDUM A 
  The performance objectives for the restricted stock unit grants referenced in the Agreement are, with respect to each Tranche of RSUs, (1) the Company s achievement of four consecutive fiscal quarters of positive net income during the period between the Date of Grant and the Time-Based Vesting Date with respect to such Tranche (as defined in Section 2(a) of the Agreement), and (2) the completion of four consecutive calendar quarters, commencing after the Date of Grant and ending on or prior to the Time-Based Vesting Date with respect to such Tranche, in which the Company s Adjusted EPS exceeds 110% of the Adjusted EPS for the four completed fiscal quarters ended as of the last day of the last fiscal quarter immediately preceding the Date of Grant. 
   Adjusted EPS  means fully diluted earnings per share as determined pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied ( GAAP ), but excluding (1) extraordinary or nonrecurring items in accordance with GAAP, (2) the impact of any change in accounting principles that occurs during either the baseline period or the performance period and the cumulative effect thereof (the Committee may either apply the changed accounting principle to the baseline period and the full performance period, or exclude the impact of the change in accounting principle from both periods), (3) goodwill and other intangible impairment charges, (4) gains or charges associated with (i) a business becoming a discontinued operation, (ii) the sale or divestiture (in any manner) of any interest in a business or (iii) the obtaining or losing control of a business, as well as the gains or charges associated with the operation of any business (a) that during the baseline period or the performance period is or becomes a discontinued operation, (b) as to which control is lost during the baseline period or the performance period, or (c) as to which the Company sells or divests its interest in the baseline period or the performance period, (5) gains or charges related to the sale or impairment of assets, (6)(i) all transaction costs directly related to the acquisition of any whole or partial interest in a business, (ii) all restructuring charges directly related to any business as to which the Company acquired a whole or partial interest and incurred within two years of the acquisition date, (iii) all charges and gains arising from the resolution of contingent liabilities related to any business as to which the Company acquired a whole or partial interest and identified as of the acquisition date, and (iv) all other charges directly related to the acquisition of any whole or partial interest in a business and incurred within two years of the acquisition date, and (7) the impact of any discrete income tax charges or benefits recorded in the performance period; provided, that with respect to the gains and charges referred to in sections (3), (4), (5), (6)(iii), (6)(iv) and (7), only gains or charges that individually or as part of a series of related items exceed $10 million in aggregate during the baseline and performance periods are excluded. 
  These performance criteria are in addition to the time-based vesting criteria that apply to these awards. 

ADDENDUM B 
  This Addendum includes additional terms and conditions that govern the RSUs granted to Participant if Participant works and/or resides in one of the countries listed herein.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Notice of Grant, the Agreement or the Plan. 
  This Addendum may also include information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which Participant should be aware with respect to Participant s participation in the Plan.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws concerning RSUs in effect as of March 2016.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently.      As a result, the Company strongly recommends that Participant not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of Participant s participation in the Plan as the information may be out of date at the time Participant vests in the RSUs or sells Shares acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, this Addendum is general in nature and may not apply to Participant s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure Participant of any particular result.    Accordingly, Participant should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in Participant s country apply to Participant s specific situation. 
  If Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which Participant is currently working, transfers employment and/or residency after the RSUs were granted or is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information contained herein may not be applicable to Participant in the same manner. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN AUSTRALIA, CZECH REPUBLIC, GERMANY, HUNGARY, IRELAND, NEW ZEALAND, SLOVAKIA AND THE UNITED KINGDOM 
  Section 4(c) of this Agreement (Retirement) shall not apply to any Participant who as of the Date of Grant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment in Australia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, New Zealand, Slovakia or the United Kingdom.  Instead, the provisions of Section 4(a) (General), shall apply, notwithstanding the provisions therein regarding Early Retirement and Normal Retirement to the contrary.   
  PARTICIPANTS IN AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, DENMARK, FINLAND, FRANCE, ITALY, THE NETHERLANDS,  POLAND, SLOVENIA, SPAIN AND SWEDEN 
  Section 4(c)(i) of this Agreement (regarding Early Retirement) shall not apply to any Participant who as of the Date of Grant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovenia, Spain or Sweden (collectively, the  Statutory Retirement Age Countries ). Instead, the provisions of Section 4(a) (General), shall apply, notwithstanding the provisions therein regarding Early Retirement to the contrary. 
  For purposes of applying the Plan and Section 4(c)(ii) of this Agreement (regarding Normal Retirement) to any Participant who as of the Date of Grant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment in any of the Statutory Retirement Age Countries, the definition of "Normal Retirement" set forth in the Plan shall not apply and instead "Normal Retirement" shall mean such Participant's attainment of the statutory retirement age in the jurisdiction in which the Participant is on permanent, non-temporary assignment as of the Date of Grant. In the absence of a statutory retirement age in such jurisdiction, "Normal Retirement" shall mean attainment of the customary age for retirement in such jurisdiction. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that subsequent to the Date of Grant such a Participant works in a jurisdiction other than in the jurisdiction in which the Participant was on permanent, non-temporary assignment as of the Date of Grant, if required to comply with applicable law, the Committee shall have sole and absolute discretion to instead apply to such Participant the retirement provisions of this Agreement that are applicable in such other jurisdiction.  
  PARTICIPANTS IN ARGENTINA 
  Securities Law Notice 
  Participant understands that neither the grant of the RSUs nor the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Award constitute a public offering as defined by the Law N  17,811, or any other Argentine law.  The offering of the RSUs is a private placement.  As such, the offering is not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority. 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement  
  Any benefits awarded under the Plan accrue no more frequently than on an annual basis.  In addition, Participant acknowledges that the grant is made by the Company on behalf of Participant s local employer. 

Exchange Control Notice 
  Following the sale of Shares and/or the receipt of dividends, Argentine residents may be subject to certain restrictions in bringing such funds back into Argentina.  The Argentine bank handling the transaction may request certain documentation in connection with the request to transfer proceeds into Argentina (e.g., evidence of the sale, proof of the source of the funds used to purchase such shares, etc.).  Participant must comply with any and all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with the sale of any Shares acquired upon exercise and the receipt of any dividends paid on such shares. 
  Please note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change.  Participant should consult with his or her personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations Participant may have in connection with Participant s participation in the Plan. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  If Participant holds Shares as of December 31 of any year, Participant is required to report the holding of the Shares on his or her personal tax return for the relevant year. In addition, certain periodic reporting obligations also apply; specifically, when Participant acquires, sells, transfers or otherwise disposes of Shares on or after January 1, 2012, Participant must register the transaction with the Federal Tax Administration. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN AUSTRALIA 
  Australian Offer Document  
  Participant understands that the offering of the Plan in Australia is intended to qualify for exemption from the prospectus requirements under Class Order 14/1000 issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. Participation in the Plan is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Australian Offer Document, the Plan and this Agreement provided to Participant. 
  Securities Law Notice 
  If the Participant acquires Shares pursuant to the vesting/settlement of the RSUs and offers his or her Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, Participant s offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law.  Participant should obtain legal advice on his or her disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer. 
  Exchange     Control     Notice 
  Exchange control reporting is required for cash transactions exceeding A$10,000 and international fund transfers of any amount.  The Australian bank assisting with the transaction will file the report for Participant.  If there is no Australian bank involved in the transfer, Participant will be responsible for filing the report. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN AUSTRIA 
  Exchange Control Notice  
  If Participant holds Shares acquired under the Plan outside of Austria, Participant may be required to submit a report to the Austrian National Bank.  An exemption applies if the value of the Shares as of any given quarter does not exceed  30,000,000 or as of December 31 does not exceed  5,000,000.  If the former threshold is exceeded, quarterly obligations are imposed, whereas if the latter threshold is exceeded, annual reports must be given.  The annual reporting date is December 31 and the deadline for filing the annual report is March 31 of the following year.   
  When Participant sells Shares acquired under the Plan or receives a dividend payment, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria.  If the transaction volume of all accounts abroad exceeds  3,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month, on the prescribed form (  Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/oder SI-Verpflichtungen  ). 
  PARTICIPANTS IN BELGIUM 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information     
  Participant is required to report any security or bank account opened and maintained outside Belgium on Participant s annual tax return.  In a separate report, Participant is  required to provide a central contact point to the National Bank of Belgium with the account number, bank name and country in which said bank account was opened. This report, as well as additional information  

on how to complete it, can be found on the website of the National Bank of Belgium, www.nbb.be, under the   Kredietcentrales / Centrales des cr dits   caption. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN BRAZIL 
  Compliance with Law   
  By accepting the RSUs, Participant acknowledges his or her agreement to comply with applicable Brazilian laws and to pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the vesting of the RSUs, the receipt of any dividends, and the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. 
  Nature of Grant 
  By accepting the RSUs, Participant agrees that Participant is making an investment decision, the Shares will be issued to Participant only if vesting conditions are met and any necessary services are rendered by Participant over the vesting period, and the value of the underlying Shares is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the vesting period without compensation to Participant.  
  Labor Law Acknowledgement 
  Participant agrees that, for all legal purposes, (i) the benefits provided under the Agreement and the Plan are the result of commercial transaction unrelated to Participant s employment; (ii) the Agreement and the Plan are  not part of any terms and conditions of Participant s employment; and (iii) the income from the RSUs, if any, is not part of Participant s remuneration from employment. 
  Exchange Control Notice  
  If Participant is resident or domiciled in Brazil, Participant will be required to submit annually a declaration of assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights is equal to or greater than US$100,000.  Assets and rights that must be reported include Shares acquired under the Plan. Foreign individuals holding Brazilian visas are considered Brazilian residents for purposes of this reporting requirement and must declare the assets held abroad that were acquired subsequent to the date of admittance as a resident of Brazil. Please note that the US$100,000 threshold may be changed annually.  
  Securities Law Notice 
  The Award and the securities granted under the Plan have not been and will not be publicly issued, placed, distributed, offered or negotiated in the Brazilian capital markets and, as a result, will not be registered with the Brazilian Securities Commission (  Comiss o de Valores Mobili rios  , the CVM). Therefore, the Award and the securities granted under the Award will not be offered or sold in Brazil, except in circumstances which do not constitute a public offering, placement, distribution or negotiation under the Brazilian capital markets regulation. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN CANADA 
  Consent to Receive Information in English for Participants in Quebec   
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be written in English. 
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais du pr sent Contrat, ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaires intent es, directement ou indirectement, relativement   ou suite au pr sent Contrat. 
  RSUs Payable Only in Shares 
  RSUs granted to Participants in Canada shall be paid in Shares only.  In no event shall any of such RSUs be paid in cash, notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan, or any provision in the Agreement to the contrary.   
  Data Privacy 
  Participant hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. Participant further authorizes the Company and its Subsidiaries and affiliates, and any stock plan service provider that may be selected by the Company, to assist with the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their respective advisors. Participant further authorizes the Company and its Subsidiaries and affiliates to record such information and to keep such information in his or her employee file. 

Securities Law Notice 
  Participant is permitted to sell Shares acquired through the Plan through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any (or any other broker acceptable to the Company), provided the resale of Shares acquired under the Plan takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the Shares is listed.  The Shares are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information     
  Foreign property, including RSUs, Shares acquired under the Plan and other rights to receive shares of a non-Canadian company held by a Canadian resident must generally be reported annually on a Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time during the year. Thus, such RSUs must be reported - generally at a nil cost - if the C$100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because Participant holds other foreign property. When Shares are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base ( ACB ) of the shares. The ACB would ordinarily equal the fair market value of the shares at the time of acquisition, but if Participant owns other shares of the same company, this ACB may need to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares.  Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable reporting obligations. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN CHILE 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of the RSUs is not intended to be a public offering of securities in Chile but instead is intended to be a private placement. 
           a) 
    The starting date of the offer will be the Grant Date (as defined in the Agreement), and this offer conforms to General Ruling no. 336 of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance; 
              b) 
    The offer deals with securities not registered in the registry of securities or in the registry of foreign securities of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance, and therefore such securities are not subject to its oversight;  
              c) 
    The issuer is not obligated to provide public information in Chile regarding the foreign securities, as such securities are not registered with the Chilean Superintendence of Securities and Insurance; and  
              d) 
    The foreign securities shall not be subject to public offering as long as they are not registered with the corresponding registry of securities in Chile. 
              a) 
    La fecha de inicio de la oferta ser  el de la fecha de otorgamiento (o  Grant Date , seg n este t rmino se define en el documento denominado  Agreement ) y esta oferta se acoge a la norma de Car cter General n  336 de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros Chilena;  
              b) 
    La oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el registro de valores o en el registro de valores extranjeros que lleva la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros Chilena, por lo que tales valores no est n sujetos a la fiscalizaci n de  sta;  
              c) 
    Por tratar de valores no inscritos no existe la obligaci n por parte del emisor de entregar en chile informaci n p blica respecto de esos valores; y 
              d) 
    Esos valores no podr n ser objeto de oferta p blica mientras no sean inscritos en el registro de valores correspondiente. 
     Exchange Control Notice 
  It is the Participant s responsibility to make sure that the Participant complies with exchange control requirements in Chile when the value of his or her stock transaction is in excess of US$10,000. 
  According to the International Exchange Transaction Regulations ( IETR ) issued by the Central Bank of Chile, it is arguable whether the acquisition of Shares for which Participant does not remit funds abroad represents an  investment operation .  In case the acquisition qualifies as an investment operation under the IETR and the aggregate value of any Shares exceeds US$10,000, the Participant must sign Annex 1 of the Manual of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations and file it directly with the Central Bank within ten (10) days of the settlement of the RSUs. 
  The Participant is not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents.  However, if the Participant decides to repatriate such funds, the Participant must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of the funds exceeds US$10,000.  In such case, the Participant must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.   

If the Participant s aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000 (including the investments made under the Plan), the Participant must report the investments annually to the Central Bank.  Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report. 
  Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change.  The Participant should consult with his or her personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that the Participant may have prior to the vesting of the RSUs. 
  Annual Tax Reporting Obligation    
  The Chilean Internal Revenue Service ( CIRS ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding:  (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments.  These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each year.  The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.   If the Participant is not a Chilean citizen and has been a resident in Chile for less than three years, the Participant is exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853.  These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:    www.sii.cl  . 
  PARTICIPANTS IN CHINA 
  Terms and Conditions - Exchange Control Restrictions Applicable to Participants who are PRC Nationals 
  Participant understands and agrees that upon RSU vesting the underlying Shares may be sold immediately or, at the Company s discretion, at a later time.  Participant further agrees that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on Participant s behalf pursuant to this authorization), and Participant expressly authorizes such broker to complete the sale of such Shares.  Participant acknowledges that the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price.  Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to pay the cash proceeds from the sale, less any brokerage fees or commissions, to Participant in accordance with applicable exchange control laws and regulations and provided any liability for Tax-Related Items resulting from the vesting of the RSUs has been satisfied.  Due to fluctuations in the Share price and/or the US Dollar exchange rate between the vesting date and (if later) the date on which the Shares are sold, the sale proceeds may be more or less than the market value of the Shares on the vesting date.  Participant understands and agrees that the Company is not responsible for the amount of any loss Participant may incur and that the Company assumes no liability for any fluctuations in the Share price and/or US Dollar exchange rate. 
  Participant understands and agrees that, due to exchange control laws in China, Participant will be required to immediately repatriate to China the cash proceeds from the sale of any Shares acquired at vesting of the RSUs and any dividends received in relation to the Shares.  Participant further understands that, under local law, such repatriation of the cash proceeds may need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account to be approved by the local foreign exchange administration, and Participant hereby consents and agrees that the proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and any dividends received in relation to the Shares may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to Participant.  The proceeds may be paid to Participant in U.S. Dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion.  In the event the proceeds are paid to Participant in U.S. Dollars, Participant understands that he or she will be required to set up a U.S. Dollar bank account in China and provide the bank account details to the Employer and/or the Company so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account.  In addition, Participant understands and agrees that Participant will be responsible for converting the proceeds into Renminbi Yuan at Participant s expense.    
  If the proceeds are paid to Participant in local currency, Participant agrees to bear any currency fluctuation risk between the time the Shares are sold or dividends are paid and the time the proceeds are distributed to Participant through any such special account.  
  Exchange Control Notice Applicable to Participants in the PRC 
  Participant understand that exchange control restrictions may limit Participant s ability to access and/or convert funds received under the Plan, particularly if these amounts exceed US$50,000.  Participant should confirm the procedures and requirements for withdrawals and conversions of foreign currency with his or her local bank prior to the vesting of the RSUs/sale of the Shares. 
  Participant agrees to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in the Peoples  Republic of China. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information   
  PRC residents are required to report to SAFE details of their foreign financial assets and liabilities, as well as details of any economic transactions conducted with non-PRC residents, either directly or through financial institutions.  Participant may be subject to reporting obligations for the Shares or awards acquired under the Plan and Plan-related transactions.  It is Participant's responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and Participant should consult his/her personal tax advisor in this regard. 

PARTICIPANTS IN COLOMBIA 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement    The following provision supplements Section 10 of the Agreement: 
  Participant acknowledges that pursuant to Article 128 of the Colombian Labor Code, the Plan, the Award, the underlying Shares, and any other amounts or payments granted or realized from participation in the Plan do not constitute a component of Participant's  salary  for any purpose. To this extent, they will not be included and/or considered for purposes of calculating any and all labor benefits, such as legal/fringe benefits, vacations, indemnities, payroll taxes, social insurance contributions or any other labor-related amount which may be payable." 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information  
  Investments held abroad (including Shares issued at vesting) must be registered with the Central Bank of Colombia (Banco de la Rep blica) if the aggregate investments held by an individual (as of December 31 of the applicable calendar year) equal or exceed a prescribed threshold.  If the threshold is met or exceeded, Participant must register the investments with the Central Bank by filing a Form No. 11 and submitting it to Se ores, Banco de la Rep blica, Atn: Jefe Secci n Inversiones, Departamento de Cambios Internacionales, Carrera 7 No. 14 - 18, Bogot , Colombia  by June 30 of the following year.  Upon the sale or disposition of the investments previously registered with the Central Bank, Participant must cancel the registration by no later than March 31 of the year following the sale or disposition or certain fines could apply.   
  In addition, when Participant sells or otherwise disposes of any Shares acquired under the Plan, Participant may either choose to keep the resulting sums abroad, or to repatriate them to Colombia. If Participant chooses to repatriate funds to Colombia and Participant has not registered his or her investment with Banco de la Rep blica, Participant will need to file with Banco de la Rep blica Form No. 5 upon conversion of funds into local currency, which should be duly completed to reflect the nature of the transaction. If Participant has registered his or her investment with Banco de la Rep blica, then Participant will need to file with Banco de la Rep blica Form No. 4 upon conversion of funds into local currency, which should be duly completed to reflect the nature of the transaction. 
  Participant should consult his/her personal legal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable Colombian exchange control regulations. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Upon request of the Czech National Bank (the  CNB ), Participant may be required to fulfill certain notification duties in relation to the acquisition of Shares and the opening and maintenance of a foreign account.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor prior to vesting of RSUs and the subsequent sale of Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is Participant s responsibility to comply with Czech exchange control laws, and neither the Company nor any Subsidiary or affiliate will be liable for any resulting fines or penalties. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN DENMARK 
  Danish Stock Option Act 
  By accepting this Award, the Participant acknowledges that he or she has received a Danish translation of an Employer Statement, which is being provided to comply with the Danish Stock Option Act. 
  Exchange Control Notice     
  The establishment of an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside Denmark must be reported to the Danish Tax Administration.  The form which should be used in this respect may be obtained from a local bank.  (Please note that these obligations are separate from and in addition to the securities/tax reporting obligations described below.) 
  Securities/Tax Reporting Notice 
  If Participant holds Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, Participant is required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account.  For this purpose, Participant must file a Form V (Erklaering V) with the Danish Tax Administration.  Both Participant and the bank/broker must sign the Declaration V.  By signing the Declaration V, the bank/broker undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than on February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward certain information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable broker or bank with which the account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such  

obligation to report, Participant acknowledges that he or she is solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage account and Shares deposited therein to the Danish Tax Administration as part of his or her annual income tax return.  By signing the Form V, Participant authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of the Form V can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk. 
  In addition, if Participant opens a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank) for the purpose of holding cash outside Denmark, Participant is also required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about this account.  To do so, Participant must also file a Form K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration.  The Form K must be signed both by Participant and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held.  By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year and not later than on February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward certain information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account.  In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, Participant acknowledges that he or she is solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of Participant s annual income tax return. By signing the Form K, Participant authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.  A sample of Form K can be found at the following website:  www.skat.dk. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN FINLAND 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN FRANCE 
  Consent to Receive Information in English 
  By accepting the RSUs, Participant confirms having read and understood the Plan, the Notice of Grant, the Agreement and this Addendum, including all terms and conditions included therein, which were provided in the English language. The Participant accepts the terms of those documents accordingly.   
  Consentement afin de Recevoir des Informations en Anglais 
  En acceptant les RSUs d'Achat d'Actions, le B n ficiaire confirme qu il ou elle a lu et compris le Plan, la Notification d Attribution, le Contrat et les pr sentes Annexes, en ce compris tous les termes et conditions y relatifs, qui sont fournis en langue anglaise. Le B n ficiaire accepte les termes de ces documents en connaissance de cause  . 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If Participants holds Shares outside of France or maintains a foreign bank account, he or she is required to report the maintenance of such to the French tax authorities when filing his or her annual tax return. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN GERMANY 
  Exchange Control Notice     
  Cross-border payments in excess of  12,500 must be reported monthly to the German Federal Bank (Bundesbank).  If Participant receives a payment in excess of  12,500 in connection with the sale of Shares under the Plan, Participant must report the payment to Bundesbank electronically using the  General Statistics Reporting Portal  (Allgemeines Meldeportal Statistik) via Bundesbank s website (  www.bundesbank.de  ).  Participant is responsible for complying with applicable reporting requirements.   
  PARTICIPANTS IN HONG KONG 
  Form of Settlement 
  Notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the RSUs are payable in Shares only.   
  Sale Restriction 
  Shares received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment.  In the event that the RSUs vest and Shares are issued to the Participant (or the Participant's heirs) within six months of the Award Date, the Participant (or the Participant's heirs) agrees that the Shares will not be offered to the public or otherwise disposed of prior to the six-month anniversary of the Award Date.   

Wages 
  The RSUs and Shares subject to the RSUs do not form part of Participant s wages for the purposes of calculating any statutory or contractual payments under Hong Kong law.  
  Securities Law Notice 
  WARNING: The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. Participant is advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If Participant is in any doubt about any of the contents of this document, Participant should obtain independent professional advice.  Neither the grant of the RSUs nor the issuance of Shares upon vesting of the RSUs constitutes a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and is available only to employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries.  The Agreement, including this Addendum, the Plan and other incidental communication materials distributed in connection with the RSUs (i) have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong and (ii) are intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the Company or its subsidiaries and may not be distributed to any other person.   
  Nature of the Program 
  The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be treated as an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ( ORSO ).  To the extent any court, tribunal or legal/regulatory body in Hong Kong determines that the Plan constitutes an occupational retirement scheme for the purposes of ORSO, the grants of the RSUs will be null and void.   
  PARTICIPANTS IN HUNGARY 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN INDIA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Participant must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares and any cash dividends acquired under the Plan to India and convert the proceeds into local currency within a certain period of the receipt (90 days for sale proceeds and 180 days for dividend payments).  Participant will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate ( FIRC ) from the bank where Participant deposits the foreign currency.  Participant should maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of funds in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.  
  Because exchange control regulations can change frequently and without notice, Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is Participant s responsibility to comply with exchange control laws in India, and neither the Company nor the Employer will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Participant s failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Foreign Assets/Account Reporting Information 
  Participant is required to declare his or her foreign bank accounts and any foreign financial assets (including Shares held outside India) in Participant s annual tax return.  It is Participant s responsibility to comply with this reporting obligation and Participant should consult his or her personal advisor in this regard as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance.   
  PARTICIPANTS IN IRELAND 
  There are no country-specific provisions.  
  PARTICIPANTS IN ITALY 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  Italian residents who, at any time during the fiscal year, hold foreign financial assets (including cash and Shares) which may generate income taxable in Italy are required to report these assets on their annual tax returns (UNICO Form, RW Schedule) for the year during which the assets are held, or on a special form if no tax return is due.  These reporting obligations will also apply to Italian residents who are the beneficial owners of foreign financial assets under Italian money laundering provisions. 

Data Privacy 
  This provision replaces the data privacy section in the Agreement: 
  Participant understands that the Company and his or her employer, as the Privacy Representative of the Company in Italy, may hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of common stock or directorships held in the Company or its Subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures details of all Awards or any other entitlement to shares of common stock awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in Participant s favor, and that the Company and his employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from a third party ( Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and Community legislation.  
  Participant also understands that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that his denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect his ability to participate in the Plan. The Controller of personal data processing is Danaher Corporation, with registered offices at 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Suite 800W, Washington, DC 20037. 
  Participant understands that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be accessible by Participant s employer and within the employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing, and by the data processor, if appointed. The updated list of processors and of the subjects to which Personal Data are communicated will remain available upon request at Participant s employer. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. Participant understands that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. Participant further understands that the Company or its Subsidiaries or affiliates will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration and management of the Participant s participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its Subsidiaries or  affiliates may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to a broker or other third party with whom he or she may elect to deposit any shares acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such shares.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan.  Participant understands that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere, in countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.   
  Participant understands that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003. 
  The processing activity, including the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require Participant s consent thereto as the it is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  Participant understands that, pursuant to section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, Participant has the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not; access and verify its contents, origin and accuracy; delete, update, integrate or correct Personal Data; or block or stop, for legitimate reason, Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights, Participant should contact his or her  employer. Furthermore, Participant is aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting Participant s employer human resources department. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgement   
  In accepting the RSU, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan and the Agreement and has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum, in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Addendum. 
  Participant further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the following paragraphs of the Agreement: Tax Obligations; No Employment Contract; Nature of RSUs; Language; Governing Law and Venue; and the Data Privacy paragraph included in this Addendum. 

PARTICIPANTS IN JAPAN 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If the Participant acquires Shares valued at more than  100,000,000 in a single transaction, the Participant must file a Securities Acquisition Report with the Ministry of Finance through the Bank of Japan within 20 days of the purchase of the shares. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information 
  The Participant will be required to report details of any assets held outside Japan as of December 31st to the extent such assets have a total net fair market value exceeding  50,000,000.  This report is due by March 15th each year.  The Participant should consult with his or her personal tax advisor as to whether the reporting obligation applies to him or her and whether the requirement extends to any outstanding RSUs or Shares acquired under the Plan. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN KOREA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Exchange control laws require Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares to repatriate the sale proceeds back to Korea within three (3) years of the sale. 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information     
  Korean residents must declare all foreign financial accounts (e.g., non-Korean bank accounts, brokerage accounts) based in foreign countries that have not entered into an  inter-governmental agreement for automatic exchange of tax information  with Korea to the Korean tax authority and file a report with respect to such accounts if the value of such accounts exceeds KRW 1 billion (or an equivalent amount in foreign currency).  Participant should consult with Participant's personal tax advisor for additional information about this reporting obligation, including whether or not there is an applicable inter-governmental agreement between Korea and the U.S. (or any other country where Participant may hold any Shares or cash acquired in connection with the Plan). 
  PARTICIPANTS IN MEXICO 
  Labor Law Acknowledgement 
  These provisions supplement the labor law acknowledgement contained in the Agreement: 
  By accepting the RSUs, Participant acknowledges that he or she understands and agrees that: (i) the RSU is not related to the salary and other contractual benefits granted to Participant by the Employer; and (ii) any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment. 
  Policy Statement 
  The invitation the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any time without any liability. 
  The Company, with registered offices at 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W, Washington, D.C., 20037, United States of America, is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and, in Participant  case, the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way establish an employment relationship between Participant and the Company since Participant is participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is the Subsidiary employing Participant, as applicable, nor does it establish any rights between Participant and the Employer. 
  Plan Document Acknowledgment 
  By accepting the RSU award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received copies of the Plan, has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.   
  In addition, by signing the Agreement, Participant further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the terms and conditions in the Nature of RSUs, Section 15 of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the Plan is offered by the Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and its Subsidiaries are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the RSUs.  

Finally, Participant hereby declares that he or she does not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any compensation or damages as a result of participation in the Plan and therefore grants a full and broad release to the Employer and the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan. 
  Spanish Translation 
  Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral 
  Estas disposiciones complementan el reconocimiento de la ley laboral contenida en el Acuerdo: 
  Por medio de la aceptaci n de la RSU, quien tiene la RSU manifiesta que entiende y acuerda que: (i) la RSU no se encuentra relacionada con el salario ni con otras prestaciones contractuales concedidas al que tiene la RSU por parte del patr  y (ii) cualquier modificaci n del Plan o su terminaci n no constituye un cambio o desmejora en los t rminos y condiciones de empleo. 
  Declaraci n de Pol tica  
  La invitaci n por parte de la Compa  a bajo el Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compa  a se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad. 
  La Compa  a, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W, Washington, D.C., United States of America, es la  nica responsable por la administraci n del Plan y de la participaci n en el mismo y, en el caso del que tiene la RSU, la adquisici n de Acciones no establece de forma alguna, una relaci n de trabajo entre el que tiene la RSU y la Compa  a, ya que la participaci n en el Plan por parte del que tiene la RSU es completamente comercial y el  nico patr n es la Subsidiaria que esta contratando al que tiene la RSU, en caso de ser aplicable, as  como tampoco establece ning n derecho entre el que tiene la RSU y el patr n. 
  Reconocimiento del Plan de Documentos 
  Por medio de la aceptaci n de la RSU, el que tiene la RSU reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, que el mismo ha sido revisado al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo. 
  Adicionalmente, al firmar el Acuerdo, el que tiene la RSU reconoce que ha le do, y que aprueba espec fica y expresamente los t rminos y condiciones contenidos en la Naturaleza del Otorgamiento, Apartado 15 del Acuerdo, secci n en la cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la participaci n en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participaci n en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compa  a de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la participaci n en el Plan es voluntaria; y (iv) la Compa  a, as  como sus Subsidiarias no son responsables por cualquier detrimento en el valor de las Acciones en relaci n con la RSU. 
  Finalmente, por medio de la presente quien tiene la RSU declara que no se reserva ninguna acci n o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la Compa  a por compensaci n, da o o perjuicio alguno como resultado de la participaci n en el Plan y en consecuencia, otorga el m s amplio finiquito a su patr n, as  como a la Compa  a, a sus Subsidiarias con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN THE NETHERLANDS 
  Labor Law Acknowledgment 
  By accepting the RSU, Participant acknowledges that: (i) the RSU is intended as an incentive for Participant to remain employed with the Employer and is not intended as remuneration for labor performed; and (ii) the RSU is not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN NEW ZEALAND 
  Securities Law Notice  
  In compliance with New Zealand securities laws, the Participant is hereby notified that the following information is available for review in connection with the offer of RSUs under the Plan: 
  (i)    the Agreement, including this Addendum, which together with the Plan sets forth the terms and conditions of participation in the Plan;  
  (ii)    a copy of the Company s most recent annual return (i.e., Form 10-K) and most recent financial reports; and  

(iii)    a copy of the Plan and a description of the Plan (the  Description ) (i.e., the Company s Form S-8 Plan Prospectus under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended); the Company will provide any attachments or documents incorporated by reference into the Description upon written request.   
  The Participant may request copies of the documents described above by contacting Danaher s corporate legal department using the contact details provided on www.danaher.com.  The documents incorporated by reference into the Description are updated periodically.  The Participant understands that should he or she request copies of the documents incorporated by reference into the Description, the Company will provide the Participant with the most recent documents incorporated by reference. 
  Warning Statement 
  Participant is being offered RSUs, which, upon vesting in accordance with the terms of the Award, will be converted into Shares. The Shares, if issued, give Participant a stake in the ownership of the Company. Participant may receive a return if dividends are paid.  
  If the Company runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, Participant will be paid only after all creditors (and holders of preference shares) have been paid. Participant may lose some or all of his or her investment. 
  New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors before they invest.  This requires those offering financial products to have disclosure information that is important for investors to make an informed decision.   
  The usual rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme. As a result, Participant may not be given all of the information usually required.  Participant will also have fewer other legal protections for this investment.  
  Ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before committing to this investment. 
  The Shares are quoted.  The Company intends to quote the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.  This means Participant may be able to sell them on the New York Stock Exchange if there are interested buyers. Participant may get less than he or she invested. The price will depend on the demand for the Shares. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN NORWAY 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN POLAND 
  Exchange Control Notice      
  Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland on transactions and balances of the securities and cash deposited in such accounts if the value of such securities and cash (when combined with all other assets held abroad) exceeds PLN 7,000,000.  If required, the reports must be filed on a quarterly basis on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.  Further, any transfer of funds in excess of a specified threshold (currently  15,000) must be effected through a bank account in Poland.  Participant should maintain evidence of such foreign exchange transactions for five (5) years, in case of a request for their production by the National Bank of Poland. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN ROMANIA 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  If Participant deposits the proceeds from the sale of Shares issued to him or her at vesting and settlement of the Shares in a bank account in Romania, Participant may be required to provide the Romanian bank with appropriate documentation explaining the source of the funds.  
  Participant should consult his or her personal advisor to determine whether Participant will be required to submit such documentation to the Romanian bank. 
  English Language  
  Participant hereby expressly agrees that this Agreement, the Plan as well as all documents, notices and proceedings entered into, relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up or communicated only in the English language.  

Angajatul consimte  n mod expres prin prezentul ca acest Contract, Programul precum  i orice alte documente, notific ri,  n tiin  ri legate direct sau indirect de acest Contract s  fie redactate sau efectuate doar   n limba englez . 
  PARTICIPANTS IN RUSSIA 
  Securities Law Notification 
  The Plan and all other materials that Participant may receive concerning the grant of RSUs and Participant's participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia.  The Shares to be issued upon vesting of the RSUs have not and will not be registered in Russia and, therefore, the Shares described in any Plan documents may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.  In no event will Shares to be issued upon vesting of the RSUs be delivered to Participant in Russia.  All Shares acquired under the Plan will be maintained on Participant's behalf outside of Russia.  Participant will not be permitted to sell Shares directly to a Russian legal entity or resident. 
  Exchange Control Notification 
  Participant must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares to Russia.  Such funds must be initially credited to Participant through a foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia.  After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks in accordance with Russian exchange control laws.  However, dividends can be held in a foreign currency account at a foreign individual bank account opened in certain countries (including the United States).  Participant should contact his or her personal advisor regarding Participant's exchange control obligations resulting from participation in the Plan as significant penalties may apply in the case of non-compliance with such obligations. 
  Data Privacy.    This data privacy consent replaces the data privacy section of the Agreement: 
                     1. 
    Purposes for processing of the Personal Data 
    1. 
                                       
      1.1. 
    Granting to the Participant restricted share units or rights to purchase shares of common stock. 
    1.1. 
                                                                            (RSU)                                    . 
      1.2. 
    Compliance with the effective Russian Federation laws; 
    1.2. 

2. 
    The Participant hereby grants consent to processing of the personal data listed below 
    2. 
                                                                                                            
      2.1. 
    Last name, first name, patronymic, year, month, date and place of birth, gender, age, address, citizenship, information on education, contact details (home address(es), direct office, home and mobile telephone numbers, e-mail address, etc.), photographs; 
    2.1. 
           ,    ,         ,    ,      ,                      ,    ,        ,      ,            ,                        ,                       (        ( )      ( ),                        ,                                 ,                             .),            
      2.2. 
    Information contained in personal identification documents (including passport details), tax identification number and number of the State Pension Insurance Certificate, including photocopies of passports, visas, work permits, drivers licenses, other personal documents; 
    2.2. 
            ,                          ,                        ,                              ,                                                                              ,                                ,    ,                     ,                           ,                          
      2.3. 
    Information on employment, including the list of duties, information on the current and former employers, information on promotions, disciplinary sanctions, transfer to other position / work, etc.; 
    2.3. 
                                      ,                                ,                                             ,                      ,                          ,                              /      ,    .  
      2.4. 
    Information on the Participant s salary amount, information on salary changes, on participation in employer benefit plans and programs, on bonuses paid, etc.; 
    2.4. 
                                                                      ,                                     ,                                                            ,                                 ,    .  

2.5. 
    Information on work time, including hours scheduled for work per week and hours actually worked; 
    2.5. 
                              ,                                                                                                                       
      2.6. 
    Information on potential membership of certain categories of employees having rights for guarantees and benefits in accordance with the Russian Federation Labor Code and other effective legislation; 
    2.6. 
                                                                  ,                                                                                                                                        
      2.7. 
    Information on the Participant s tax status (exempt, tax resident status, etc.);  
    2.7. 
                                                                (                              ,                                     . .); 
      2.8. 
    Information on shares of Common Stock or directorships held by the Participant, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding; 
    2.8. 
                                                                                                   ,                                                                                   ,                           ,             ,          ,         ,                                . 
      2.9. 
    Any other information, which may become necessary to the Company in connection with the purposes specified in Clause 3 above.  
    2.9. 
                     ,                                                                      ,              . 3     . 

the    Personal Data    

3.1. 
    The Participant hereby consents to performing the following operations with the Personal Data: 
    3.1. 
                                                                                                                         : 
      3.1.1. 
    processing of the Personal Data, including collection, systematization, accumulation, storage, verification (renewal, modification), use, dissemination (including transfer), impersonalizing, blockage, destruction; 
    3.1.1. 
                                 ,             ,               ,           ,         ,           (          ,          ),              ,                 (                    ),              ,             ,                                 
      3.1.2. 
    transborder transfer of the Personal Data to  perators located on the territory of foreign states.  The Participant hereby confirms that he was notified of the fact that the recipients of the Personal Data may be located in foreign states that do not ensure adequate protection of rights of personal data subjects; 
    3.1.2. 
                                                                                                     .                                                   ,                           ,                                                                               ,                                                                        
      3.1.3. 
    including Personal Data into generally accessible sources of personal data (including directories, address books and other), placing Personal Data on the Company's web-sites on the Internet.   
    3.1.3. 
                                                                                (                       ,                   . .),                                                                    . 

3.2. 
    General description of the data processing methods used by the Company 
    3.2. 
                                          (   )                                        
      3.2.1.   When processing the Personal Data, the     Company     undertakes the necessary organizational and technical measures for protecting the Personal Data from unlawful or accidental access to them, from destruction, change, blockage, copying, dissemination of Personal Data, as well as from other unlawful actions.    
    3.2.1.                                                                                                                                                                                     ,            ,          ,             ,            ,                                    ,                                       . 

3.2.2.   Processing of the Personal Data by the Company shall be performed using the data processing methods that ensure confidentiality of the Personal Data, except where: (1) Personal Data is impersonalized; and (2) in relation to publicly available Personal Data; and in compliance with the established requirements to ensuring the security of personal data, the requirements to the tangible media of biometric personal data and to the technologies for storage of such data outside personal data information systems in accordance with the effective legislation.  
    3.2.2.                                                                               ,                                               ,                                 : (1)                                            (2)                                                                                                                                       ,                                                                                                                                                                                                        .  

4. 
    Term, revocation procedure 
    4. 
        ,                
      This Statement of Consent is valid for an indefinite term. The Participant may revoke this consent by sending to Company a written notice at least ninety (90) days in advance of the proposed consent revocation date.  The Participant agrees that during the specified notice period the Company is not obliged to cease processing of Personal Data or destroy the Personal Data of the Participant.  
                                                                .                                                                                          (  )            (  )            (  )                 90 (         )                                                       .                                              ,                                        ( )          ( )                                                                                                       . 

PARTICIPANTS IN SINGAPORE  
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of the RSUs is being made pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption  under section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ) and is not made to Participant with a view to the Shares being subsequently offered for sale to any other party.  The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Participant should note that the RSUs are subject to section 257 of the SFA and Participant should not make (i) any subsequent sale of the Shares in Singapore or (ii) any offer of such subsequent sale of the Shares subject to the Award in Singapore, unless such sale or offer is made after six (6) months of the grant of the RSUs or pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division 1 Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the SFA. 
  Chief Executive Officer and Director Notification Requirement   
  The Chief Executive Officer and the Directors of a Singapore subsidiary of the Company are subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act.  The Chief Executive Officer and the Directors must notify the Singapore subsidiary in writing of an interest (e.g., RSUs, Shares, etc.) in the Company or any related company within two (2) business days of (i) its acquisition or disposal, (ii) any change in a previously-disclosed interest (e.g., upon vesting of the RSUs or when Shares acquired under the Plan are subsequently sold), or (iii) becoming the CEO / a director. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
  Optionee will not have a foreign asset or account reporting requirement unless Optionee is an independent entrepreneur (i.e., Optionee conducts business activities on his or her own behalf and holds a corresponding business/trade license).    
  PARTICIPANTS IN SLOVENIA 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN SOUTH AFRICA 
  Withholding Taxes.    This provision supplements Section 7(a) of the Agreement: 
  By accepting the Restricted Stock Units, Participant agrees to immediately notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units.  If Participant fails to advise the Employer of the gain realized at vesting, Participant may be liable for a fine.  Participant will be responsible for paying any difference between the actual tax liability and the amount withheld. 
  Exchange Control Notice   
  To participate in the Plan, Participant must comply with exchange control regulations and rulings (the  Exchange Control Regulations ) in South Africa. 

Because the Exchange Control Regulations change frequently and without notice, Participant understands that Participant should consult Participant's legal advisor prior to the acquisition or sale of Shares acquired under the Plan to ensure compliance with current regulations.  Participant understands that it is Participant's responsibility to comply with South African exchange control laws, and neither the Company nor any Parent or Subsidiary will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Participant's failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  Securities Law Notice 
  In compliance with South African Securities Law, Participant acknowledges that the documents listed below are available for review at the web addresses listed below: 
    Participant understands that a copy of the above documents will be sent to Participant free of charge on written request.   
  Participant is advised to carefully read the materials provided before making a decision whether to participate in the Plan and to contact Participant s tax advisor for specific information concerning Participant s personal tax situation with regard to Plan participation. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN SPAIN 
  Nature of Plan 
  This provision supplements Section 15 of the Agreement.  In accepting the grant, Participant acknowledges that he or she consents to participation in the Plan and has received a copy of the Plan. 
  Participant understands that the Company, in its sole discretion, has unilaterally and gratuitously decided to grant RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary throughout the world.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or Subsidiary over and above the specific terms of the Plan on an ongoing basis.  Consequently, Participant understands that the RSUs are granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and the Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or a Subsidiary) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  
  In addition, Participant understands that the grant of the RSUs would not be made to Participant but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, Participant acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any RSU grant shall be null and void. 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Participant must declare the acquisition of shares to the Direccio n General de Comercio e Inversiones (the  DGCI ) of the Ministry of Industry for statistical purposes.  Participant must also declare ownership of any shares with the Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January while the shares are owned.  In addition, if Participant wishes to import the ownership title of the shares (i.e., share certificates) into Spain, he or she must declare the importation of such securities to the DGCI.  The sale of the shares must also be declared to the DGCI by means of a form D-6 filed in January.  The form D-6, generally, must be filed within one month after the sale if Participant owns more than 10% of the share capital of the Company or his or he investment exceeds  1,502,530.  
  When receiving foreign currency payments in excess of  50,000 derived from the ownership of shares (i.e., dividends or sale proceeds), Participant must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made.  Participant will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) Participant s name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment; (iv) the currency used; (v) the country of origin; (vi) the reasons for the payment; and (vii) any further information that may be required. 
  In addition, Participant may be required to electronically declare to the Bank of Spain any foreign accounts (including brokerage accounts held abroad), any foreign instruments (including Shares acquired under the Plan), and any transactions with non-Spanish residents (including any payments of Shares made pursuant to the Plan), depending on the balances in such accounts together with  

the value of such instruments as of December 31 of the relevant year, or the volume of transactions with non-Spanish residents during the relevant year. 
  Foreign Assets/Account Reporting Information 
  To the extent Participant holds rights or assets (e.g., cash or Shares held in a bank or brokerage account) outside of Spain with a value in excess of  50,000 per type of right or asset as of December 31 each year (or at any time during the year in which Participant sells or disposes of such right or asset), Participant is required to report information on such rights and assets on his or her tax return for such year.  After such rights or assets are initially reported, the reporting obligation will only apply for subsequent years if the value of any previously-reported rights or assets increases by more than  20,000. The reporting must be completed by the following March 31.  
  PARTICIPANTS IN SWEDEN 
  There are no country-specific provisions. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN SWITZERLAND 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of the RSUs is considered a private offering in Switzerland and is therefore not subject to securities registration in Switzerland. Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the RSUs constitute a prospectus as such term is understood pursuant to the Swiss Code of Obligations, and neither this document not any other material relating to the RSU may be publicly distributed nor otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland.  
  PARTICIPANTS IN TAIWAN 
  Securities Law Notice 
  The grant of the RSUs and the Shares to be issued under the Plan is available only for employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries. It is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company; therefore, it is exempt from registration in Taiwan.  
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Participant may acquire foreign currency, and remit the same out of Taiwan, up to US$5 million per year without justification.   In addition, if Participant remits TWD$500,000 or more in a single transaction, he or she must submit a Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to the remitting bank.  If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more in a single transaction, Participant also must provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN THAILAND 
  Exchange Control Notice 
  Participant must immediately repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares and any cash dividends received in relation to the Shares to Thailand and convert the funds to Thai Baht within 360 days of receipt.  If the repatriated amount is US$50,000 or more, Participant must report the inward remittance by submitting the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form to an authorized agent,   i.e.,   a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency. 
  If Participant does not comply with this obligation, Participant may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.  Because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, Participant should consult a legal advisor before selling Shares to ensure compliance with current regulations.  It is Participant s responsibility to comply with exchange control laws in Thailand, and neither the Company nor any Parent or Subsidiary will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Participant s failure to comply with applicable laws. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN TURKEY 
  Securities Law Notice 
  Under Turkish law, the Participant is not permitted to sell Shares acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The Shares are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey and the Shares may be sold through this exchange. 

Exchange Control Notice 
  The Participant may be required to engage a Turkish financial intermediary to assist with the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. To the extent a Turkish financial intermediary is required in connection with the sale of any Shares acquired under the Plan, the Participant is solely responsible for engaging such Turkish financial intermediary.  The Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the RSUs or any sale of Shares to ensure compliance with the current requirements. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
  Securities Law Notice 
  Participation in the Plan is being offered only to selected Participants and is in the nature of providing equity incentives to Participants in the United Arab Emirates.  The Plan and the Agreement are intended for distribution only to such Participants and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other person.  Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own due diligence on the securities.  If Participant does not understand the contents of the Plan and the Agreement, Participant should consult an authorized financial adviser. The Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with the Plan.  Neither the Ministry of Economy nor the Dubai Department of Economic Development have approved the Plan or the Agreement nor taken steps to verify the information set out therein, and have no responsibility for such documents. 
  PARTICIPANTS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM 
  Withholding Taxes.    The following replaces Section 7(a) of the Agreement in its entirety: 
  (a)      Withholding Taxes  .  Regardless of any action the Company or any Subsidiary employing Participant (the  Employer ) take with respect to any or all income tax, primary and secondary Class 1 National Insurance contributions, payroll tax or other tax-related withholding attributable to or payable in connection with or pursuant to the grant, vesting, release or assignment of any RSU (the  Tax-Related Items ), Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items associated with the RSUs is and remains Participant s responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to, the grant or vesting of the RSUs, the delivery of the Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate Participant s liability for Tax Related Items.  Further, if Participant has relocated to a different jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any taxable event, Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  As a condition of the issuance of Shares upon vesting of the RSU, the Company and/or the Employer shall be entitled to withhold and Participant agrees to pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy, all obligations of the Company and/or the Employer to account to HM Revenue   Customs ( HMRC ) for any Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, in its sole discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax Related Items legally payable by Participant by one or a combination of the following:  (i) require Participant to pay Tax-Related Items in cash with a cashier s check or certified check; (ii) withholding cash from Participant s wages or other compensation payable to Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; (iii) arranging for the sale of Shares otherwise issuable to Participant upon vesting of the RSUs (on Participant s behalf and at Participant s direction pursuant to this authorization); (iv) withholding from the proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs; or (v) withholding in Shares otherwise issuable to Participant, provided that the Company withholds only the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding amount or such other amount as may be necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment using the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of the relevant taxable event.  
  Participant shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to account to HMRC with respect to the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items (the  Chargeable Event ) that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  If payment or withholding is not made within 90 days after the end of the UK tax year in which the Chargeable Event occurs, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the  Due Date ), Participant agrees that the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall (assuming Participant is not a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)), constitute a loan owed by Participant to the Employer, effective on the Due Date.  Participant agrees that the loan will bear interest at the then-current HMRC Official Rate and it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to above.  If any of the foregoing methods of collection are not allowed under applicable laws or if Participant fails to comply with Participant s  

obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Section, the Company may refuse to deliver the Shares acquired under the Plan. 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.16>
 4
 dhr-20161231xexx1016.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION & PROPRIETARY INTERESTS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.16 
  
  DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES 
  AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS 
  Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly, rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success.  Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates.  As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests.  Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success. 
  I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates (collectively the "Company"), and will learn and have access to the Company's confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships.  I understand that the products and services that the Company develops, provides and markets are unique.  Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests. 
  I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company's customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information regarding, among other things, the Company's employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential and proprietary. 
  I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement.  I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free will without coercion from any source.  I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company. 
  I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement. 
  In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am expressly being given employment, continued employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits, training and/or trade secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms of this Agreement.  In consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows: 
           1. 
    Protection of Confidential Information  . 
     a.  Definition of      Confidential Information .    The term      Confidential Information      shall mean the trade secrets and other confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company or the Company's actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company's express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.  Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists, pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data (including but not limited to the   revenues, costs  ,   or profits,   associated   with   any products   or   services),   business   and customer   strategy  ,   techniques  ,   formulations, technical information,   technical know-how,   formulae, production information  ,   inventions,   invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings  ,   invention methods, systems,   information regarding all or   any   portion of the Danaher Busines  s   System, lease   structure,   processes,   designs,   plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, personal or performance information about employees, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans,  
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans or proposals related to the   foregoing. 
  b.  Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse.    At all times during and after the termination of my   employment   or relationship with the   Company,   I   will   not,   without   the   Company's   prior   written   permission, directly or indirectly for any   purpose   other than performance of my   duties for the Company, utilize   or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential.  The confidentiality obligations herein shall not prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of   any such   situations and   shall   take reasonable   steps   to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been   i  nformed of   such   required disclosure and has had   a   reasonable opportunity   first   to seek a protective order. 
  2.      Return of Property and Copying      I   agree   that   all tangible   materials   (whether   originals or   duplicates),   including but not limited to,   notebooks, computers,   files, reports, proposals, price   lists,   lists of actual   or potential customers   or   suppliers,   talent lists, formulae, prototypes  ,   tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies,   research   results, test   results, financial   data, contracts, agreements, correspondence, documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession   or control   which in   any way relate   to   the Company's   business and   which   are furnished to me by or on behalf of   the Company   or which are prepared,   compiled   or   acquired   by me while working with or   employed   by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company.  I will   at any   time   upon   the request of the   Company   and in any event promptly upon termination of my employment or relationship with the   Company,   but in   any   event   no   later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials   to   the   Company and   will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard copy form or   as computerized   and/or   electronic   records.    Except to   the   extent approved   by th  e Com  pany or   required   by my bona fide job duties for the   Company,   I   also   agree   that   I will   not copy or   remove   from the   Co  mpany's   place   of business   or   the place of business of a   customer   of the   Company,   property or   information   belonging to   the Company   or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer.  In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company. 
  3.      Assignment of Developments      I hereby   assign   to the   Company   my   entire right, title and interest in any   idea, formula,   invention, discovery,   design, drawing, process, method, t  ec  hnique,   device,   improvement,   computer   program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data, work of   authorship, trade secret,   copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent   applications (all   hereinafter called      Developments     ),   which I may solely or jointly conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the   Company, or   which   are suggested   by   or   result   from any task assigned   to   me or work   performed by   me   for   or   on behalf of the   Company,   whether   or   not   such   Developments   are   made,   conceived,   written   or acquired during normal hours of   work   or using the Company's facilities, and   whether   or   not   such Developments are patentable,   copyrightable   or   susceptible   to   other   forms   of protection.  The term  Developments  does not apply to any development   for   which no equipment,   supplies, facilities   or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was   used, and   which was   developed entirely   on   my   own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or   anticipated   business of the   Company;   or   (ii) to the Company's   actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b  )   the   Development results from any   work performed by me for the Company.  I acknowledge and   agree that   any   intellectual   property   right   in   any   Developments and related documentation, and work of authorship,   which are created within   the   scope   of my relationship   with   the Company, are owned solely by the Company. 
  4.      Disclosure of Developments      I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company's policies and procedures in place from time to   time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company's request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company's title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company's sole expense, to enable the Company to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company.  If the Company is unable, after reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company's rights and title to the Developments. 
  5.      Identification of Developments and     Third     Party Obligations  . 
  (a)  I have identified below all Developments in which I have any right, title or interest, and which were made,  
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company.  I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3. 

(b)  I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work.  I agree to be bound by all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements. 
  6.      Protection of Proprietary Interests  . 
  (a)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (b)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (c)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company), manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any position I   held   with the Company during   the   24 months preceding the termination of   my employment or   relationship   with the Company   or in which I would have responsibility for and access   to   confidential information   similar or relevant to that   which I   had   access   to   during   the   24months preceding   the termination of my employment or relationship with the   Company in any geographic territory over which I had Company   responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my   employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (d)      I   agree   that during my employment   or   r  e  lationship   with the Company and for   a   period of 24 months   thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party   to,   directly or   indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, encourage or att  e  mpt to persuade any employee or ind  e  pendent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of   the   Company during   the   6 months   preceding   the termination   of   my employment   or   relationship with   the   Company  ,   who possesses or   had   access to Confidential Information   of   the   Company, to leave   the employ of or   terminate   a   relationship   with th  e   Company; (ii) interfere   with   the performance   by   any such persons of   their   duties for   the   Company; or (iii  )   communicate with any such persons for   the   purposes described in   Paragraph   6(d)(i) and (ii). 
  (e)      I   agree   that   during   my   employment or relationship with   the   Company,   and   for   a period of 12 months thereafter, I will   not  ,   directly or indir  e  ctly  ,   on behalf of myself   or   any   other   person,   company or   entity,   utilize   or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer   used   by or   served by the   Company   at   any   time   during   the   24 months preceding   the termination   of   my   employment   or   relationship with   the   Company. 
  (f)      I   agree   that   during my employment or relationship   with the Company, and for a period of 12 months   thereafter,   I   will   not  ,   directly or indirectly  ,   on behalf of   myself   or any other person, company   or   entity, interfere   with   or assist any   third   party in   interfering   with,   the   relationship of   the   Company with any vendor utilized     by the Company at any   time  
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

during   the   24 months   preceding   the termination of my employment   or   relationship with   the Company  . 
  (g)      I agree   that   during my employment or   relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months   thereafter   I   will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other   person,   company   or entity, participate in the   planning, research     or development of any products or services, competitive   with   products   or   services   of   the Company, excluding general   industry   knowledge, for which   I had product or service planning, research or   development responsibilities during   the   24 months preceding   the termination of my employment or relationship with   the Company. 
  (h)      I   agree   that   during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person, company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would   work   with or support   products or   services competitive   with   or similar to   the   products, services,   or support   offered by, performed by,   developed by or   created by   me   for   the   Company during   the   24 months preceding   the   termination of my employment   or relationship with   the Company. 
  (i)      I agree tha  t nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.  Further, I understand and agree that   during   my employment or work relationship and the restricted   time periods   thereafter   designated   in   this   Agreement, while I may gather   information to   investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree   that I   shall not make   plans or prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement. 
  7.      Best     Efforts  .    I agree   that during my employment   or relationship with the Company, I will devote   my best efforts to the   performance of my duties   and the   advancement of   the   Company and shall not engage in any other employment, profitable activities, or oth  e  r pursuits which would cause me   to   disclose or   utilize   the Company's Confidential Information, or   reflect   adversely on the Company.  This obligation shall include, but   is   not   limited   to,   obtaining the   Company's consent prior to   performing tasks   for customers   of the   Company outside of my customary duties for   the   Company, giving speeches or writing articles  , blogs  , or posts  ,   about   the   business of the Company, improperly using   the name   of   the   Company or identifying my association or   position with the   Company in a manner   that reflects   unfavorably   upon the   Company.    I   further agree   that I will   not   use,   incorporate  ,   or otherwise create   any   business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business. 
  8.      Certification  .    I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use.  Furthermore, by executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully performi  ng my duties for the Company.  I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, the C  ompany may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers  . 
  9.      Injunctive Relief and Attorney's Fees  .    In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will fac  e irreparable injury which would be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequ  ate remedy, I agree that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining such breach or threatened breach.  Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney's fees, litigation expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me. 
  10.        Am  e  ndment, Waiver, Severability and M  e  rger  .    Except as set forth in Paragraph 12 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends (to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company.  I agree that by executing this Agreement I am no longer entitled to any Severance Payments or Termination Payments I may have been entitled to under a prior competition, solicitation and/or proprietary interest agreement with the Company.  No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the  
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

parties.  I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law.  Further, I acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.  The terms of this Agreement shall not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me.  The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement. 
  11.      At-Will Employment Status  .    I acknowledge and agree that that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time.  I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require the Company to continue my employment, relationship or compensation for any particular length of time.  I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the Company and I each have the right to terminate the employment relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to otherwise in writing by the Company and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge, skills and abilities are sufficient to enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement. 
  12.      Acknowledgment of Obligations  .    I   acknowledge   that my   obligations   under this Agreement are in addition to,   and   do not limit  ,   any   and all   obligations concerning   the   same   subject   matter arising   under any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets. 
  13.      Obligations Survive     Termination  .    I acknowledge   and agree that the   restrictions   and   covenants   set forth in this Agreement   shall   be binding upon me   and survive   termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of the reason(s) for such termination.  I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is   seeking   to protect with this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not   interfere   with the   interests   of the public. 
  14.      Cooperation  .    I agree to cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party claim in which the Company may have an interest   subject   to reasonable limitations   concerning   time and place, which may include without limitation making   myself available   to participate in any proceeding   involving   the   Company, allowing   myself   to   be interviewed   by representatives   of the Company,   appearing for   depositions   and   testimony without   requiring a subpoena,   an  d producing   and/or   providing any documents or names of other persons with   relevant   information; provided that  ,   if such services are   required   after the termination     of my   employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and specific request of the Company. 
  15.      Non-Disparagement  .    I agree   that during   and after   my   employment or relationship   with the   Company ends for any   reason,   I   will not make any fals  e, disparaging     or derogatory   statement(s) to any   media   outlet,   industry   group, financial   institution, current or former   employee, consultant  ,   client   or   customer of   the   Company, or any other entity   or person, which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors.  I further agree that I will not take any action that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in disrepute. 
  16.      Assignment and Transfer of     Employment     or Relationship  .  .      The rights and/or obligations herein may only be   assigned   by the   Company,   may be done without   my   consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns.  If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this Agreement shall remain binding upon   me.  Notwithstanding   the   language   in this   Paragraph   16, in connection   with and as a condition   of   any assignment or   trans  fer   of my   employment   or relationship the   Company, a successor,   or   assignee   of   th  e   Company   shall   have the right to terminate   this Agreement and require   me to   sign a   new Agreement Regarding Competition   and   the Protection of   Proprietary   Interests. 
  17.      Change of Position  .    I acknowledge   and agree   that any change in my position or title with the Company shall not   cause   this Agreement to terminate   and   shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement. 
  18  .        Acceptance  .    I agre  e   that   this Agreement   is accepted by me   through   my   original or facsimile signature.    I   further agree   that the   Company is   deemed to   have accepted this   Agreement   as evidenced   by   my employment   or relationship with the   Company,   the payment   of wages or monies   to me, the provision of benefits   to me,   or by executing this Agreement. 
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

19.      Binding Effect  .    This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns. 
  20.      Third Party Beneficiaries  .    This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and may be enforced by any such entity.  I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
                         Agreed to by: 

Danaher Corporation 

/s/ Angela S. Lalor 

By: 
    /s/ H. L. Culp, Jr. 
      Associate Signature 

Angela S. Lalor 

H. L. Culp, Jr. / President   CEO 
      Associate's Printed Name 
      
    Print Name and Title 

Date: 
    3/19/12 
      
    Date: 
    3-23-12 

Gen Pres NCA w/o 

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.18>
 5
 dhr-20161231xexx1018.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION & PROPRIETARY INTERESTS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.18 
  
  DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES 
  AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS  
  Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly, rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success.  Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates.  As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests.  Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success. 
  I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates (collectively the  Company ), and will learn and have access to the Company s confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships.  I understand that the products and services that the Company develops, provides and markets are unique.  Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests. 
  I understand and agree that I am or will be employed by the Company as an attorney.  The Company and I acknowledge and agree that as an in-house attorney, my job activities and services to the Company shall include not only the practice of law (to which the applicable rules of ethical conduct apply), but also services or activities that do not constitute the practice of law and for which this Agreement shall apply. 
  I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company s customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information regarding, among other things, the Company s employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential and proprietary. 
  I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement.  I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free will without coercion from any source.  I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company. 
  I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement. 
  In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am expressly being given employment, continued employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits, training and/or trade secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms of this Agreement.  In consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows: 
  1.      Protection of Confidential Information  .     
  a.      Definition of  Confidential Information .    The term  Confidential Information  shall mean the trade secrets and other confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company or the Company s actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company s express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.  Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists, pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data (including but not  
  
   Gen NCA Atty (2015) 

limited to the revenues, costs, or profits, associated with any products or services), business and customer strategy, techniques, formulations, technical information, technical know-how, formulae, production information, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings, invention methods, systems, information regarding all or any portion of the Danaher Business System, lease structure, processes, designs, plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans, research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans or proposals related to the foregoing.   
  b.      Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse  .  At all times during and after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, I will not, without the Company s prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential.  The confidentiality obligations in this Section or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity first to seek a protective order.   
  c.    I understand and agree that my obligations as set forth in this Section 1 cover business information and matters covered by the attorney client privilege. 
  2.      Return of Property and Copying    I agree that all tangible materials (whether originals or duplicates), including but not limited to, notebooks, computers, files, reports, proposals, price lists, lists of actual or potential customers or suppliers, talent lists, formulae, prototypes, tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies, research results, test results, financial data, contracts, agreements, correspondence, documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession or control which in any way relate to the Company s business and which are furnished to me by or on behalf of the Company or which are prepared, compiled or acquired by me while working with or employed by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company.  I will at any time upon the request of the Company and in any event promptly upon termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, but in any event no later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials to the Company and will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard copy form or as computerized and/or electronic records.  Except to the extent approved by the Company or required by my bona fide job duties for the Company, I also agree that I will not copy or remove from the Company s place of business or the place of business of a customer of the Company, property or information belonging to the Company or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer.  In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company. 
  3.      Assignment of Developments    I hereby assign to the Company my entire right, title and interest in any idea, formula, invention, discovery, design, drawing, process, method, technique, device, improvement, computer program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data, work of authorship, trade secret, copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent applications (all hereinafter called  Developments ), which I may solely or jointly conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company, or which are suggested by or result from any task assigned to me or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company, whether or not such Developments are made, conceived, written or acquired during normal hours of work or using the Company s facilities, and whether or not such Developments are patentable, copyrightable or susceptible to other forms of protection.  The term  Developments  does not apply to any development for which no equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was used, and which was developed entirely on my own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or anticipated business of the Company; or (ii) to the Company s actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the Development results from any work performed by me for the Company.  I acknowledge and agree that any intellectual property right in any Developments and related documentation, and work of authorship, which are created within the scope of my relationship with the Company, are owned solely by the Company. 
  4.      Disclosure of Developments    I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company s policies and procedures in place from time to time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company s request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company s title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company s sole expense, to enable the Company to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company.  If the  
  
   Gen NCA Atty (2015) 

Company is unable, after reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company s rights and title to the Developments. 
  5.      Identification of Developments and Third Party Obligations  . 
  (a)  I have identified below all Developments in which I have any right, title or interest, and which were made, conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company.  I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3. 

(b)    I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work.  I agree to be bound by all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements. 
  6.      Protection of Proprietary Interests  . 
  (a)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company  or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (b)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (c)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company), manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any position I held with the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company or in which I would have responsibility for and access to confidential information similar or relevant to that which I had access to during the 24months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company in any geographic territory over which I had Company responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (d)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee or independent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of the Company during the 6 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, who possesses or had access to Confidential Information of the Company, to leave the employ of or terminate a relationship with the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such persons of their duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such persons for the purposes described in Paragraph 6(d)(i) and (ii).  For purposes of Section 6(d)(i) and 6(d)(iii) (to the extent 6(d)(iii) applies to 6(d)(i)), the term "employee or independent contractor of the Company" shall not include persons who provide legal services to the Company (e.g., attorneys, paralegals, legal assistants). 
  
   Gen NCA Atty (2015) 

(e)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, utilize or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer used by or served by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (f)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, interfere with or assist any third party in interfering with, the relationship of the Company with any vendor utilized by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (g)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, participate in the planning, research or development of any products or services, competitive with products or services of the Company, excluding general industry knowledge, for which I had product or service planning, research or development responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (h)    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person, company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would work with or support products or services competitive with or similar to the products, services, or support offered by, performed by, developed by or created by me for the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (i)    I agree that nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.  Further, I understand and agree that during my employment or work relationship and the restricted time periods thereafter designated in this Agreement, while I may gather information to investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree that I shall not make plans or prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement. 
  (j)    The confidentiality obligations in this Agreement, including in Paragraph 1(b) and 6(e) do not prohibit me from reporting violations of federal or state law or regulation to any governmental agency or from making other disclosures that are protected under the whistleblower provisions of federal or state law or regulation, nor do the confidentiality obligations require me to notify the Company regarding any such reporting, disclosure or cooperation with the government. 
  (j)    I understand and agree that my obligations as set forth in this Section 6 shall be effective and binding only to the extent permissible pursuant to the applicable rules of ethical conduct for attorneys and shall not enjoin me from the future practice of law. 
  7.      Best Efforts  .  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, I will devote my best efforts to the performance of my duties and the advancement of the Company and shall not engage in any other employment, profitable activities, or other pursuits which would cause me to disclose or utilize the Company s Confidential Information, or reflect adversely on the Company.  This obligation shall include, but is not limited to, obtaining the Company s consent prior to performing tasks for customers of the Company outside of my customary duties for the Company, giving speeches or writing articles, blogs, or posts, about the business of the Company, improperly using the name of the Company or identifying my association or position with the Company in a manner that reflects unfavorably upon the Company.  I further agree that I will not use, incorporate, or otherwise create any business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business. 
  8.      Certification  .  I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use.  Furthermore, by executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully performing my duties for the Company.  I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, the Company may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers. 
  9.      Injunctive Relief and Attorney s Fees  .  In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will face irreparable injury which would be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequate remedy, I agree that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions  
  
   Gen NCA Atty (2015) 

and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining such breach or threatened breach.  Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney s fees, litigation expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me.   
  10.      Amendment, Waiver, Severability and Merger  .  Except as set forth in Paragraph 12 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends (to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company.  No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties.  I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law.  Further, I acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.  The terms of this Agreement shall not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me.  The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement.  The Company and I intend for the restrictive covenants set forth in this Agreement to be enforceable only to the extent permitted under the applicable rules of ethical conduct for attorneys and is not intended to restrict my future practice of law. 
  11.      At-Will Employment Status  .  I acknowledge and agree that that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time.  I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require the Company to continue my employment, relationship or compensation for any particular length of time.  I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the Company and I each have the right to terminate the employment relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to otherwise in writing by the Company and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge, skills and abilities are sufficient to enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement.   
  12.      Acknowledgment of Obligations.    I acknowledge that my obligations under this Agreement are in addition to, and do not limit, any and all obligations concerning the same subject matter arising under any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets. 
  13.      Obligations Survive Termination.    I acknowledge and agree that the restrictions and covenants set forth in this Agreement shall be binding upon me and survive termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of the reason(s) for such termination.  I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is seeking to protect with this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not interfere with the interests of the public. 
  14.      Cooperation.    I agree to cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party claim in which the Company may have an interest subject to reasonable limitations concerning time and place, which may include without limitation making myself available to participate in any proceeding involving the Company, allowing myself to be interviewed by representatives of the Company, appearing for depositions and testimony without requiring a subpoena, and producing and/or providing any documents or names of other persons with relevant information; provided that, if such services are required after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and specific request of the Company. 
  15.      Non-Disparagement.    I agree that during and after my employment or relationship with the Company ends for any reason, I will not make any false, disparaging or derogatory statement(s) to any media outlet, industry group, financial institution, current or former employee, consultant, client or customer of the Company, or any other entity or person, which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors.  I further agree that I will not take any action that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in  
  
   Gen NCA Atty (2015) 

disrepute.  I understand that the foregoing non-disparagement provision does not apply on occasions when I provide truthful information in good faith to any federal or state governmental agency, entity or official investigating an alleged violation of federal or state law or regulation or when I make other disclosures that are protected under the whistleblower provisions of federal or state law. 
  16.      Assignment and Transfer of Employment or Relationship.  . The rights and/or obligations herein may only be assigned by the Company, may be done without my consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns.  If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this Agreement shall remain binding upon me.  Notwithstanding the language in this Paragraph 16, in connection with and as a condition of any assignment or transfer of my employment or relationship the Company, a successor, or assignee of the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and require me to sign a new Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests. 
  17.      Change of Position  .  I acknowledge and agree that any change in my position or title with the Company shall not cause this Agreement to terminate and shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement. 
  18.      Acceptance  .  I agree that this Agreement is accepted by me through my original or facsimile signature.  I further agree that the Company is deemed to have accepted this Agreement as evidenced by my employment or relationship with the Company, the payment of wages or monies to me, the provision of benefits to me, or by executing this Agreement. 
  19.      Binding Effect  .  This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns. 
  20.           Third Party Beneficiaries  .    This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and may be enforced by any such entity.  I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
                         Agreed to by: 

Danaher Corporation 

/s/ Brian W. Ellis 

By: 
    /s/ Amy Osier 
      Associate Signature 

Brian W. Ellis 

Amy Osier, Dir, Corp HR 
      Associate's Printed Name 
      
    Print Name and Title 

Date: 
    19 November 2015 
      
    Date: 
    12/7/15 

Gen NCA Atty (2015) 

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.19>
 6
 dhr-20161231xexx1019.htm
 LETTER AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.19 

November 18, 2015 

Via E-mail 
    
  Mr. Brian Ellis 
  Dear Brian: 
  I am delighted to extend you an offer of employment with Danaher Corporation (the "Company") and am confident that your background and experience will allow you to make major contributions to the Company. Your leadership will be critical in fully leveraging our talent and the Danaher Business System to achieve our aggressive growth targets. We look forward to welcoming you to our dynamic team. As we discussed, you position would be the Executive Officer position of Senior Vice President   General Counsel, based in Washington, D.C., reporting directly to Tom Joyce, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please allow this letter to serve as documentation of the offer extended to you.  
  Start Date:   Your start date will be December 1,2015. 
  Base Salary:   Your base salary will be $500,000 annually, subject to periodic review, and payable in accordance with the Company's usual payroll practices. 
  Incentive Compensation:   Beginning January 1,2016, you will be eligible for an annual cash incentive award. The target bonus percentage will be 100% of your annual base salary, subject to periodic review. Such annual cash incentive compensation award shall be subject to the Company's annual cash incentive compensation award program for Executive Officers, including applicable performance conditions. 
  Sign On Bonus (not subject to repayment):   The Company will provide you a cash sign on bonus equal to $175,000, payable in a lump sum within 30 days of your Start Date. This sign on bonus is not subject to repayment. 
  Sign On Bonus (subject to repayment):   The Company will provide you a cash sign on bonus equal to $300,000, payable in two equal installments and subject to your continued active employment until the anniversary dates set forth herein. The first payment of $150,000 will be paid within 30 days following your Start Date with the Company and is subject to repayment if you resign or are terminated for cause prior to the first anniversary of your Start Date. The second $150,000 installment will be paid within 30 days following the first anniversary of your Start Date and is subject to repayment if you resign or are terminated for cause prior to the second anniversary of your Start Date. If you are terminated without cause prior to the second anniversary of your Start Date, no repayment will be required and if you have not yet been paid the second installment of the sign on bonus at the time of such termination, the Company will pay you the remaining portion. The term "cause" will have the meaning as set forth in the Senior Leader Severance Pay Plan for Danaher Corporation and its Affiliated Entities as amended January 1,2013. This sign on bonus is conditioned on your execution of our Sign On Bonus Repayment Agreement. 
  Benefits:   You will be eligible to participate in any associate benefit plan that the Company has adopted or may adopt, maintain, or contribute to for the benefit of its regular exempt employees generally, subject to satisfying any applicable eligibility requirements. You will be eligible to participate in our comprehensive health and other insurance benefits immediately upon your first day of employment with the Company. You will be eligible to participate in our 401(k) retirement plan beginning on your first day of employment subject to the applicable plan. Information about our various benefit programs is enclosed. 
  Vacation:   You will be eligible for 25 days of annual vacation benefits pursuant to the Company's vacation policy. 

Stock Options and RSUs:   A recommendation will be made to the Compensation Committee of Danaher's Board of Directors to grant you a sign-on equity award ("Sign-On Award') at its next regularly scheduled meeting after your Start Date at which equity awards are considered. The target award value of this sign-on grant would be $1,000,000 which would be split evenly between stock options and performance based restricted stock units and would vest 20% on each of the first five anniversaries of the grant date, assuming continued employment. 
  In addition, a recommendation will be made to the Compensation Committee of Danaher's Board of Directors to grant you an equity award as part of Danaher's annual equity compensation program at its next regularly scheduled meeting after your Start Date at which equity awards are considered. The target award value of this grant would be $1,000,000 ("2016 Annual Award") which would be split 50% stock options / 25% performance based restricted stock units / and 25% performance share units, subject to any changes made by the Compensation Committee of Danaher's Board of Directors for 2016 Executive Officer equity awards. The grant of stock options and performance based RSUs would vest 33% on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date, assuming continued employment. The grant of performance share units would be subject to 3 year cliff vesting, assuming continued employment, plus an additional 2-year holding period with respect to any earned shares. You will be eligible annually for an equity award under Danaher's equity compensation program. 
  The equity awards set forth above will be solely governed by the terms and conditions set forth in Danaher's 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and in the particular form of award agreement required to be signed with respect to each award. 
             
    The target award value attributable to stock options will be converted into a specific number of options (rounded up to the nearest ten) based on an assumed value per option equal to 33% of Danaher's "average closing price". Danaher's "average closing price" means the average closing price of Danaher's common stock over a 20-day trading period ending on the grant date. 
                
    The target award value attributable to performance based RSUs will be converted into a specific number of performance based RSUs (rounded up to the nearest five) using the same "average closing price." 
                
    The target award value attributable to performance share units will be converted into a specific number of target performance share units (rounded up to the nearest five) using the same "average closing price." 
                
    Performance based RSUs and performance share units will be subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria determined by Danaher's Compensation Committee. 
     While historically Danaher's share price has increased over time, Danaher cannot guarantee that any RSUs, PSUs or stock options granted to you will ultimately have any particular value or any value. 
  EDIP Program:   You will be included in a select group of executives who participate in the Executive Deferred Incentive Program (EDIP), an exclusive, non-qualified executive benefit designed to supplement retirement benefits that otherwise are limited by IRS regulations; and provide the opportunity for you to defer taxation on a portion of your current income (base salary or bonus or both). Initially, the Company will contribute an amount equal to 60% of your total target cash compensation into your EDIP account annually (pro-rated for any initial partial year of eligibility as applicable). Vesting requirements and your participation in the EDIP are subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in such plan. Additional information on the EDIP will be provided to you by a member of the Corporate Benefits team before your EDIP eligibility date. 
  
   2 

Relocation Benefits:   The Company is pleased to provide relocation benefits through CapRelo, our third party relocation services company. You will be eligible for such benefits under our executive relocation policy, the "Buyer Value Option (BVO) Program Relocation Policy." For purposes of temporary housing benefits under the policy, we will cover duplicate housing until July 1,2016. Our CapRelo representative will contact you to explain the services, assistance and benefits provided under the Buyer Value Option (BVO) Program Relocation Policy, coordinate your relocation coverage and answer any questions that you may have. With the exception of the home buy out benefit all other relocation benefits you receive will be subject to repayment according to the following repayment schedule if you resign or are terminated for cause (as defined in the Severance Plan) within 36 months from your Start Date: 
             
    Termination on or prior to 1 year anniversary of employment start date: 100% 
                
    Termination after l year anniversary but on or before 2 year anniversary of employment start date: 66% 
                
    Termination after 2year anniversary but on or before 3 year anniversary of employment start date:33% 
                
    Termination after 3 year anniversary of employment start date: 0% 
     Severance Benefits:   You will be eligible for severance pay and benefits pursuant to the Senior Leaders Severance Pay Plan for Danaher Corporation and its Affiliated Entities, As Restated and Amended January 1,2013 ("Severance Plan"). For purposes of Section III.B of the Severance Plan, the total amount of severance pay for which you are eligible will be equal to your annual base salary at the time of your employment termination. Except for the foregoing provision, all other aspects of your severance pay and benefits shall be governed solely by the terms and conditions of the Severance Plan. 
  Reimbursement for Financial and Tax Assistance:   The Company will reimburse you for financial planning and tax preparation services in an amount not to exceed $5,000 annually provided you provide appropriate and satisfactory documentation for such reimbursement and such expenses otherwise satisfy the Company's practices and policies. 
  At-Will Employment:   Nothing in this offer letter shall be construed as any agreement express or implied, to employ you for any stated term. Your employment with the Company will be on an at-will basis, which means that either you or the Company can terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason (or no reason), with or without notice. 
  Conditions of Employment Offer:   This offer of employment is expressly conditioned upon successful completion of a background and reference check, a pre-employment/post offer drug screen, and your execution and return of the following documents no later than the date stated in the acknowledgment below: 
             
    Directors and Officers Questionnaire 
                
    Criminal History Questionnaire  
                
    Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests and the terms contained therein. 
                
    Certification of Danaher Corporation Standards of Conduct (The SOCs can be accessed at the following link http://www.danaher.com/integrity-and-compliance) 
                
    Certification of Compliance of Obligations to Prior Employers 
                
    Sign On Bonus Repayment Agreement 
                
    Relocation Benefits Repayment Agreement 
     Thank you for considering our offer. We anticipate that you will make a very strong contribution to the success of the Company and believe this is an excellent professional opportunity for you. We look forward to the opportunity to work with you as we pursue our very aggressive goals. I realize that a career decision such as this has a major impact on you and your family. If there is anything we can do, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
  Regards, 
  /s/ Angela S. Lalor 
    
  Angela S. Lalor 
  Senior Vice President 
  Corporate Human Resources 
  
   3 

Acknowledgement 
  Please acknowledge that you have read, understood and accept this offer of at will employment by signing and returning it to me, along with the above-referenced signed documents no later than November 20,2015. 

4 

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.20>
 7
 dhr-20161231xexx1020.htm
 FORM OF AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION & PROPRIETARY INTERESTS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.20 
  
  DANAHER CORPORATION AND ITS AFFILIATED ENTITIES  
  AGREEMENT REGARDING COMPETITION AND PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INTERESTS 
  Danaher Corporation believes that recruiting and retaining the best people to work in its highly competitive businesses means treating them fairly, rewarding their contributions, and thereby establishing a strong partnership for our collective well-being and continued success.  Working at Danaher and/or any of its affiliates provides associates with specialized and unique knowledge and confidential information and access to key business relationships, which, if used in competition with Danaher and/or its affiliates, would cause harm to Danaher and/or its affiliates.  As such, it is reasonable to expect a commitment from our associates that protects the legitimate business interests of Danaher and its affiliates, and therefore, their own interests.  Please read and sign this Agreement in the spirit intended: our collective long-term growth and success. 
  I understand that I am or will be employed by or enter into a relationship with Danaher Corporation including its subsidiaries and/or affiliates (collectively the  Company ), and will learn and have access to the Company's confidential, trade secret and proprietary information and key business relationships.  I understand that the products and services that the Company develops, provides and markets are unique.  Further, I know that my promises in this Agreement are an important way for the Company to protect its proprietary interests. 
  I agree that the Company is engaged in a business which is highly specialized, the identity and particular needs of Company's customers and vendors are not generally known, and the documents and information regarding, among other things, the Company's employees and talent, the Danaher Business System, customers, vendors, services, products, technology, formulations, methods of operation, sales, marketing, pricing, and costs are highly confidential and proprietary. 
  I acknowledge and agree that I have been given an adequate period of time to consider this Agreement and to have this Agreement reviewed at my expense and by an attorney of my choice regarding the terms and legal effect of this Agreement.  I have read this Agreement and understand all of its terms and conditions and am entering into this Agreement of my own free will without coercion from any source.  I have not and am not relying on legal advice provided by the Company or any personnel of the Company. 
  I agree the above recitals are material terms of this Agreement. 
  In addition to other good and valuable consideration, I am expressly being given employment, continued employment, a relationship with the Company, renewal of a relationship with the Company, a promotion, eligibility to receive grants of stock options or other equity awards, certain monies, benefits, training and/or trade secrets and confidential information of the Company and its or their customers, suppliers, vendors or affiliates to which I would not have access but for my relationship with the Company in exchange for my agreeing to the terms of this Agreement.  In consideration of the foregoing, I agree as follows: 
  1.  Protection of Confidential Information  . 
  a.  Definition of  Confidential Information .    The term  Confidential Information  shall mean the trade secrets and other confidential information of the Company which is not generally known to the public, and which (a) is generated or collected by or utilized in the operations of the Company and relates to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company or the Company's actual or prospective vendors or customers; or (b) is suggested by or results from any task assigned to me by the Company or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company or any customer of the Company.  Confidential Information shall not be considered generally known to the public if revealed improperly to the public by me or others without the Company's express written consent and/or in violation of an obligation of confidentiality to the Company.  Examples of Confidential Information include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier identification and contacts, information about customers, Voice of the Customer data, reports or analyses, business relationships, contract terms, pricing, price lists, pricing formulas, margins, business plans, projections, prospects, opportunities or strategies, acquisitions, divestitures or mergers, marketing plans, advertising or promotions, financial data (including but not limited to the revenues, costs, or profits, associated with any products or services), business and customer strategy, techniques, formulations, technical information, technical know-how, formulae, production information, inventions, invention disclosures, discoveries, drawings, invention methods, systems, information regarding all or any portion of the Danaher Business System, lease structure, processes, designs, plans, architecture, prototypes, models, software, source code, object code, solutions, personal or performance information about employees, Talent Reviews and Organizational Plans, research and development, copyrights, patent applications and plans or proposals related to the foregoing. 
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

b.  Nondisclosure and Prohibition against Misuse.    At all times during and after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, I will not, without the Company's prior written permission, directly or indirectly for any purpose other than performance of my duties for the Company, utilize or disclose to anyone outside of the Company any Confidential Information, or any information received by the Company in confidence from or about third parties, as long as such matters remain trade secrets or confidential.  The confidentiality obligations herein shall not prohibit me from divulging Confidential Information by order of court or agency of competent jurisdiction or as otherwise required by law; however, I shall promptly inform the Company of any such situations and shall take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure of Confidential Information until the Company has been informed of such required disclosure and has had a reasonable opportunity first to seek a protective order. 
  2.  Return of Property and Copying      I agree that all tangible materials (whether originals or duplicates), including but not limited to, notebooks, computers, files, reports, proposals, price lists, lists of actual or potential customers or suppliers, talent lists, formulae, prototypes, tools, equipment, models, specifications, technical data, methodologies, research results, test results, financial data, contracts, agreements, correspondence, documents, computer disks, software, computer printouts, information stored electronically, memoranda, and notes, in my possession or control which in any way relate to the Company's business and which are furnished to me by or on behalf of the Company or which are prepared, compiled or acquired by me while working with or employed by the Company shall be the sole property of the Company.  I will at any time upon the request of the Company and in any event promptly upon termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, but in any event no later than two (2) business days after such termination, deliver all such materials to the Company and will not retain any originals or copies of such materials, whether in hard copy form or as computerized and/or electronic records.  Except to the extent approved by the Company or required by my bona fide job duties for the Company, I also agree that I will not copy or remove from the Company's place of business or the place of business of a customer of the Company, property or information belonging to the Company or the customer or entrusted to the Company or the customer.  In addition, I agree that I will not provide any such materials to any competitor of or entity seeking to compete with the Company unless specifically approved in writing by the Company. 
  3.  Assignment of Developments      I hereby assign to the Company my entire right, title and interest in any idea, formula, invention, discovery, design, drawing, process, method, technique, device, improvement, computer program and related documentation, technical and non-technical data, work of authorship, trade secret, copyright, trademark, service mark, trademark registration, application for trademark registration, and patent and patent applications (all hereinafter called  Developments ), which I may solely or jointly conceive, write or acquire in whole or in part during the period I am employed by or working for the Company, and for a period of six months thereafter, and which relate in any way to the actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company, or which are suggested by or result from any task assigned to me or work performed by me for or on behalf of the Company, whether or not such Developments are made, conceived, written or acquired during normal hours of work or using the Company's facilities, and whether or not such Developments are patentable, copyrightable or susceptible to other forms of protection.  The term  Developments  does not apply to any development for which no equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret or Confidential Information of the Company was used, and which was developed entirely on my own time unless (a) the Development relates: (i) to the actual or anticipated business of the Company; or (ii) to the Company's actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development or (b) the Development results from any work performed by me for the Company.  I acknowledge and agree that any intellectual property right in any Developments and related documentation, and work of authorship, which are created within the scope of my relationship with the Company, are owned solely by the Company. 
  4.  Disclosure of Developments    I will promptly disclose any Developments referred to in Paragraph 3 to the management of the Company, including by following the Company's policies and procedures in place from time to time for that purpose, and I will, on the Company's request, promptly execute a specific assignment of title to the Company and such other documents as may reasonably be requested by the Company for the purpose of vesting, confirming or securing the Company's title to the Developments, and I will do anything else reasonably necessary, at the Company's sole expense, to enable the Company to secure a patent, trademark registration, copyright or other form of protection thereof in the United States and in other countries even after the termination of my employment or work relationship with the Company.  If the Company is unable, after reasonable effort, to secure my signature or other action, whether because of my physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason, I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint the Company as my duly authorized agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on my behalf and stead to execute any such document and take any other such action to secure the Company's rights and title to the Developments. 
  5.  Identification of Developments and Third Party Obligations  . 
  (a)  I have identified below all Developments in which I have any right, title or interest, and which were made, conceived or written wholly or in part by me prior to my employment or relationship with the Company and which relate to the  
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

actual or anticipated business or research or development of the Company.  I represent and warrant that I am not a party to any agreements which would limit my ability to work for the Company or to assign Developments as provided for in Paragraph 3. 
               N/A 

(b)  I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may have agreements with other persons or with the United States government or agencies thereof, or other governments or governmental agencies, which impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding inventions made during the course of work under such agreements or regarding the confidential nature of such work.  I agree to be bound by all such obligations and restrictions that are made known to me and to take all action necessary to discharge the obligations of the Company under such agreements. 
  6.  Protection of Proprietary Interests  . 
  (a)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, solicit or participate in soliciting any person, company or entity to purchase or contract for products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company, if that person, company or entity was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services with which I had direct contact or about which I learned Confidential Information related to such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (b)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, offer, provide or sell or participate in offering, providing or selling, products or services competitive with or similar to products or services offered by, developed by, designed by or distributed by the Company to any person, company or entity which was a customer or potential customer of the Company for such products or services and with which I had direct contact regarding such products or services at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (c)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or in conjunction with any other person, company or entity, own (other than less than 3% ownership in a publicly traded company), manage, operate, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be employed by any person, company or entity which is in competition with the Company, with which I would hold a position with responsibilities similar to any position I held with the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company or in which I would have responsibility for and access to confidential information similar or relevant to that which I had access to during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company in any geographic territory over which I had Company responsibilities during the 24months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (d)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 24 months thereafter, I will not, nor will I assist any third party to, directly or indirectly (i) raid, hire, solicit, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee or independent contractor of the Company, or any person who was an employee or independent contractor of the Company during the 6 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, who possesses or had access to Confidential Information of the Company, to leave the employ of or terminate a relationship with the Company; (ii) interfere with the performance by any such persons of their duties for the Company; or (iii) communicate with any such persons for the purposes described in Paragraph 6(d)(i) and (ii). 
  (e)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, utilize or reveal confidential contract or relationship terms with any vendor or customer used by or served by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (f)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, interfere with or assist any third party in interfering with, the relationship of the Company with any vendor utilized by the Company at any time during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

(g)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company and for a period of 12 months thereafter I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of myself or any other person, company or entity, participate in the planning, research or development of any products or services, competitive with products or services of the Company, excluding general industry knowledge, for which I had product or service planning, research or development responsibilities during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (h)  I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, and for a period of 12 months thereafter, I will not, directly or indirectly, become employed or engaged by or affiliated with any person, company or entity that was a vendor or customer of the Company, during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, in any capacity in which I would work with or support products or services competitive with or similar to the products, services, or support offered by, performed by, developed by or created by me for the Company during the 24 months preceding the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
  (i)  I agree that nothing in this Section 6 shall limit my obligations under Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.  Further, I understand and agree that during my employment or work relationship and the restricted time periods thereafter designated in this Agreement, while I may gather information to investigate other employment opportunities, I understand and agree that I shall not make plans or prepare to compete, solicit or take on activities which are in violation of this Agreement. 
  7.  Best Efforts  .    I agree that during my employment or relationship with the Company, I will devote my best efforts to the performance of my duties and the advancement of the Company and shall not engage in any other employment, profitable activities, or other pursuits which would cause me to disclose or utilize the Company's Confidential Information, or reflect adversely on the Company.  This obligation shall include, but is not limited to, obtaining the Company's consent prior to performing tasks for customers of the Company outside of my customary duties for the Company, giving speeches or writing articles, blogs, or posts, about the business of the Company, improperly using the name of the Company or identifying my association or position with the Company in a manner that reflects unfavorably upon the Company.  I further agree that I will not use, incorporate, or otherwise create any business entity or organization or domain name using any name confusingly similar to the name Danaher Corporation or the name of any affiliate of Danaher or any other name under which any such entities does business. 
  8.  Certification  .    I agree not to disclose to the Company, or use in my work for the Company, any confidential information and/or trade secrets belonging to others, including without limitation, my prior employers, or any prior inventions made by me and which the Company is not otherwise legally entitled to learn of or use.  Furthermore, by executing this Agreement, I certify that I am not subject to any restrictive covenants and/or obligations that would prevent me from fully performing my duties for the Company.  I also agree that after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, the Company may contact any employer or prospective employer of mine to inform them of my obligations under this Agreement and that, for a period of five (5) years after my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, I shall affirmatively provide this Agreement to all subsequent employers. 
  9.  Injunctive Relief and Attorney's Fees  .    In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Agreement by me, I acknowledge and agree that the Company will face irreparable injury which would be difficult to calculate in monetary terms and for which damages would be an inadequate remedy, I agree that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to remedies otherwise available at law or in equity, to obtain and enforce immediately temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and final injunctions without the posting of a bond enjoining such breach or threatened breach.  Should the Company successfully enforce any portion of this Agreement before a trier of fact, the Company shall be entitled to receive and recover from me all of its reasonable attorney's fees, litigation expenses and costs incurred as a result of enforcing this Agreement against me. 
  10.  Amendment, Waiver, Severability and Merger  .    Except as set forth in Paragraph 12 below, this Agreement is my entire agreement with the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and it amends (to the extent enforceable) all previous oral or written understandings or agreements, if any, made by or with the Company regarding the same subject matter and can be revoked or modified only by a written agreement signed by me and the Company.  I agree that by executing this Agreement I am no longer entitled to any Severance Payments or Termination Payments I may have been entitled to under a prior competition, solicitation and/or proprietary interest agreement with the Company.  No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall be effective unless it is in writing and no waiver shall be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach or as a modification of any provision of this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable and if any provision of this Agreement is found by any court to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remainder of this Agreement as well as the provisions of my prior agreement with the Company, if any, regarding the same subject matter as that which was found unenforceable herein shall nevertheless be enforceable and binding on the parties.  I also agree that the trier of fact may modify any invalid, overbroad or unenforceable term of this Agreement so that such term, as modified, is valid and enforceable under applicable law.  Further, I acknowledge and agree that I have not, will not and  
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

cannot rely on any representations not expressly made herein.  The terms of this Agreement shall not be amended by me or the Company except by the express written consent of the Company and me.  The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit or affect the meaning of this Agreement. 
  11.  At-Will Employment Status  .    I acknowledge and agree that that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or is intended to create a guarantee of employment, express or implied, for any specific period of time.  I acknowledge and agree that this Agreement does not require me to continue my employment or relationship with the Company for any particular length of time (unless otherwise agreed to in writing as an independent contractor or consultant) and shall not be construed to require the Company to continue my employment, relationship or compensation for any particular length of time.  I acknowledge and agree that if I am employed by the Company it is on an at-will basis which means that the Company and I each have the right to terminate the employment relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  If I am an independent contractor or consultant for the Company, unless agreed to otherwise in writing by the Company and me, the Company and I each have the right to terminate the relationship with or without cause or reason, with or without notice or compliance with any procedures.  I acknowledge and agree that my knowledge, skills and abilities are sufficient to enable me, if my employment or relationship with the Company terminates, to earn a satisfactory livelihood without violating this Agreement. 
  12.  Acknowledgment of Obligations  .    I acknowledge that my obligations under this Agreement are in addition to, and do not limit, any and all obligations concerning the same subject matter arising under any applicable law including, without limitation, common law duties of loyalty and common law and statutory law relating to trade secrets. 
  13.  Obligations Survive Termination  .    I acknowledge and agree that the restrictions and covenants set forth in this Agreement shall be binding upon me and survive termination of my employment or relationship with the Company regardless of the reason(s) for such termination.  I acknowledge and agree that the Company has an important and legitimate business interest that it is seeking to protect with this Agreement and that enforcement of this Agreement would not interfere with the interests of the public. 
  14.  Cooperation  .    I agree to cooperate in the truthful and honest prosecution and/or defense of any third party claim in which the Company may have an interest subject to reasonable limitations concerning time and place, which may include without limitation making myself available to participate in any proceeding involving the Company, allowing myself to be interviewed by representatives of the Company, appearing for depositions and testimony without requiring a subpoena, and producing and/or providing any documents or names of other persons with relevant information; provided that, if such services are required after the termination of my employment or relationship with the Company, it shall provide me reasonable compensation for the time actually expended in such endeavors and shall pay my reasonable expenses incurred at the prior and specific request of the Company. 
  15.  Non-Disparagement  .    I agree that during and after my employment or relationship with the Company ends for any reason, I will not make any false, disparaging or derogatory statement(s) to any media outlet, industry group, financial institution, current or former employee, consultant, client or customer of the Company, or any other entity or person, which are adverse to the interests, products, services or personnel of the Company or its and their customers or vendors.  I further agree that I will not take any action that may reasonably cause the Company, its customers or its vendors embarrassment or humiliation, and I will not otherwise directly or indirectly cause the Company, its customers or its vendors to be held in disrepute. 
  16.  Assignment and Transfer of Employment or Relationship  .  .      The rights and/or obligations herein may only be assigned by the Company, may be done without my consent and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns.  If the Company makes any assignment of the rights and/or obligations herein or transfers my employment or relationship within the Company, I agree that this Agreement shall remain binding upon me.  Notwithstanding the language in this Paragraph 16, in connection with and as a condition of any assignment or transfer of my employment or relationship the Company, a successor, or assignee of the Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and require me to sign a new Agreement Regarding Competition and the Protection of Proprietary Interests. 
  17.  Change of Position  .    I acknowledge and agree that any change in my position or title with the Company shall not cause this Agreement to terminate and shall not effect any change in my obligations under this Agreement. 
  18.  Acceptance.      I agree that this Agreement is accepted by me through my original or facsimile signature.  I further agree that the Company is deemed to have accepted this Agreement as evidenced by my employment or relationship with the Company, the payment of wages or monies to me, the provision of benefits to me, or by executing this Agreement. 
  19.  Binding Effect  .    This Agreement, and the obligations hereunder, shall be binding upon me and my successors, heirs, executors, and representatives and shall inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and its assigns. 
  
   Gen Pres NCA w/o 

20.  Third Party Beneficiaries  .    This Agreement is intended to benefit each and every subsidiary, affiliate or business unit of the Company for which I perform services, for which I have customer contact or about which I receive Confidential Information and may be enforced by any such entity.  I agree and intend to create a direct, consequential benefit to the Company regardless of the Company entity with which I am affiliated on the last day of my employment or relationship with the Company. 
                         Agreed to by: 

Danaher Corporation 

/s/ Rainer M. Blair 

By: 
    /s/ Heather L. Cepa 
      Associate Signature 

Rainer M. Blair 

Heather L. Cepa, H.R. Manager 
      Associate's Printed Name 
      
    Print Name and Title 

Date: 
    April 30, 2010 

Date: 
    May 2, 2010 

Gen Pres NCA w/o 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.21>
 8
 dhr-20161231xexx1021.htm
 NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.21 
  DANAHER CORPORATION 
  DESCRIPTION OF NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS 
  Effective as of January 1, 2017, each non-management director receives: 
             
    an annual cash retainer of $115,000, paid in four, equal installments following each quarter of service. 
                
    if a director attends more than twenty (20) Board and Board committee meetings in aggregate during a calendar year, such director will receive a cash meeting fee of $2,000 for each Board and committee meeting attended during such year in excess of such threshold, paid in aggregate following completion of such year; 
                
    an annual equity award with a target award value of $165,000, divided equally between options and RSUs.  The stock options will be immediately exercisable upon grant.  The RSUs will vest upon the earlier of (1) the first anniversary of the grant date, or (2) the date of, and immediately prior to, the next annual meeting of Danaher s shareholders following the grant date, but the underlying shares are not issued until the earlier of the director s death or the first day of the seventh month following the director s retirement from the Board; and 
                
    reimbursement for Danaher-related out-of-pocket expenses, including travel expenses.  
     In addition, the chair of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee receives an annual cash retainer of $25,000, $20,000 and $15,000, respectively, and the lead independent director receives an annual cash retainer of $30,000, in each case paid in four, equal installments following each quarter of service. 

</EX-10.21>

<EX-12.1>
 9
 dhr-20161231xexx121.htm
 CALCULATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12.1 
    
  DANAHER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
  ($ in millions, except ratio data) 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 10
 dhr-20161231xexx211.htm
 SUBSIDARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.1 
      Danaher Corporation  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
      Name 
    Jurisdiction of Formation 
      AB Sciex Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      AB Sciex KK 
    Japan 
      AB Sciex LLC 
    Delaware 
      AB Sciex LP 
    Canada 
      AB Sciex Pte Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      AB Sciex Switzerland GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      AB Sciex UK Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
      Aguasin SpA 
    Chile 
      Alltec Angewandte Laserlicht Technologie GmbH 
    Germany 
      Alpha Biotec Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Aquafine Corporation 
    California 
      Aquafine GmbH 
    Germany 
      BCK Holdings S. .r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Beckman Australia ApS 
    Denmark 
      Beckman Coulter Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Beckman Coulter Biomedical GmbH 
    Germany 
      Beckman Coulter Biotechnology (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Beckman Coulter Biyomedikal Urunler Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited [irketi] 
    Turkey 
      Beckman Coulter Canada LP 
    Canada 
      Beckman Coulter Ceska republika s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Beckman Coulter Commercial Enterprise (China) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Beckman Coulter de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Beckman Coulter do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Beckman Coulter Espa a, S.A. 
    Spain 
      Beckman Coulter France S.A.S. 
    France 
      Beckman Coulter G.m.b.H. 
    Germany 
      Beckman Coulter Genomics Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Beckman Coulter Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Beckman Coulter India Private Limited 
    India 
      Beckman Coulter International SA 
    Switzerland 
      Beckman Coulter International Shanghai Trading Co. 
    China 
      Beckman Coulter Ireland Inc. 
    Ireland 
      Beckman Coulter K.K. 
    Japan 
      Beckman Coulter Korea Ltd. 
    Korea, Republic of 
      Beckman Coulter Laboratory Systems (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Beckman Coulter Limited Liability Company 
    Russian Federation 
      Beckman Coulter Mishima K.K. 
    Japan 
      Beckman Coulter Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Beckman Coulter South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Beckman Coulter Srl 
    Italy 
      Beckman Coulter Taiwan Inc. 
    California 
      Beckman Coulter United Kingdom Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Beckman Coulter, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Beckman Coulter, S.L. 
    Spain 
      Beckman Countler Nippon GK 
    Japan 

BioTector Analytical Systems Ltd 
    Ireland 
      Carnassial Corporation 
    Canada 
      Cepheid 
    California 
      ChemTreat, Inc. 
    Virginia 
      Coulter Electronics Pty. Limited 
    Australia 
      Danaher (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Danaher Evolution GmbH 
    Germany 
      Danaher Medical ApS 
    Denmark 
      DANRAD ApS 
    Denmark 
      DANRAD Holding ApS 
    Denmark 
      Dental Imaging Technologies Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Devicore Medical Products Inc. 
    Delaware 
      DH Acquisition Holding GmbH  
    Germany 
      DH Alpha Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      DH Business Services LLC 
    Delaware 
      DH Canada Holding ULC  
    Canada 
      DH Europe Finance SA 
    Luxembourg 
      DH Holding Italia SRL 
    Italy 
      DH Holdings Corp. 
    Delaware 
      DH Operations BV  
    Netherlands 
      DH Switzerland Finance SA 
    Luxembourg 
      DH Technologies Development Pte Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      DM HoldCo GmbH  
    Germany 
      DTIL Ireland Holdings Ltd.  
    Ireland 
      DUKI (2006) Finance Limited  
    United Kingdom 
      Esko Brno S.r.o 
    Czech Republic 
      Esko BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Esko-Graphics BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Esko-Graphics Inc. 
    Georgia 
      FJ 900, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      FFCL Cayman Ltd.  
    Cayman Islands 
      Gelman Sciences Inc. 
    Michigan 
      Hach Company 
    Delaware 
      Hach Lange GmbH 
    Germany 
      Hach Lange S rl 
    Switzerland 
      Hach Water Quality Analytical Instru. (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      HemoCue AB 
    Sweden 
      HIC Canada LP  
    Canada 
      Hybritech Incorporated 
    California 
      Hybritech International, Incorporated 
    California 
      Immunotech SAS 
    France 
      Immunotech Sro 
    Czech Republic 
      Implant Direct Sybron Administration LLC 
    California 
      Implant Direct Sybron International LLC 
    Nevada 
      Implant Direct Sybron Manufacturing LLC 
    California 
      Iris International, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Joslyn Holding Company LLC 
    Delaware 
      Kaltenbach   Voigt GmbH 
    Germany 
      KAVO Dental GmbH 
    Germany 

KaVo Dental Holding GmbH 
    Germany 
      Kavo Dental Technologies, LLC 
    Illinois 
      KaVo do Brasil Ind stria e Com rcio Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Kerr Corporation 
    Delaware 
      KerrHawe SA 
    Switzerland 
      KFL Finance Ltd.  
    Ireland 
      Laetus GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Biosystems Melbourne Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
      Leica Biosystems Newcastle Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leica Biosystems Nussloch GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Instruments (Singapore) Pte Limited 
    Singapore 
      Leica Microsystems (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Leica Microsystems CMS GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Microsystems Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Leica Microsystems IR GmbH 
    Germany 
      Leica Microsystems KK 
    Japan 
      Leica Microsystems Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Leica Microsystems Ltd. Shanghai 
    China 
      Leica Mikrosysteme (Austria) GmbH 
    Austria 
      Leica Mikrosysteme Vertrieb GmbH 
    Germany 
      Life Sciences Holdings France SAS 
    France 
      Linx Printing Technologies Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Lipesa Colombia SA 
    Colombia 
      Lumigen, Inc. 
    Michigan 
      McCrometer, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Metrex Research, LLC 
    Wisconsin 
      Molecular Devices, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Nihon Pall Manufacturing Limited 
    Japan 
      Nobel Biocare AB 
    Sweden 
      Nobel Biocare Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Nobel Biocare Deutschland GmbH 
    Germany 
      Nobel Biocare India Pvt.Ltd. 
    India 
      Nobel Biocare Japan KK 
    Japan 
      Nobel Biocare Procera KK 
    Japan 
      Nobel Biocare Services AG 
    Switzerland 
      Nobel Biocare USA LLC 
    Delaware 
      Ormco BV 
    Netherlands 
      Ormco Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Pall (Canada) Limited 
    Canada 
      Pall (Schweiz) AG 
    Switzerland 
      Pall Acquisition LLC 
    Delaware 
      Pall Aeropower Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Pall Asia Holdings Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Pall Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Pall Austria Filter Ges.m.b.h 
    Austria 
      Pall Biomedical, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Pall Corporation 
    New York 
      Pall Deutschland Holding GmbH   Co. 
    Germany 
      Pall Europe Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Pall Filter (Beijing) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Pall Filtersystems GmbH 
    Germany 
      Pall Filtration and Separations Group 
    Delaware 
      Pall Filtration Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Pall ForteBio LLC 
    Delaware 
      Pall France SAS 
    France 
      Pall GmbH 
    Germany 
      Pall International Sarl 
    Switzerland 
      Pall Italia Srl 
    Italy 
      Pall Korea Ltd. 
    Korea, Republic of 
      Pall Life Sciences Belgium BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Pall Life Sciences Puerto Rico, LLC 
    Puerto Rico 
      Pall Manufacturing UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Pall Medistad BV 
    Netherlands 
      Pall Netherlands BV 
    Netherlands 
      Pall Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      PaloDEx Group OY 
    Finland 
      Pantone LLC 
    Delaware 
      Phenomenex, Inc. 
    California 
      QH HoldCo GmbH 
    Germany 
      Radiometer America Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Radiometer GmbH 
    Germany 
      Radiometer K.K. 
    Japan 
      Radiometer Medical ApS 
    Denmark 
      Radiometer Medical Equipment (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Radiometer Turku Oy  
    Finland 
      Sea-Bird Electronics, Inc. 
    Washington 
      Shanghai AB Sciex Analytical Instrument Trading Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      SpofaDental a.s. 
    Czech Republic 
      Sybron Canada Limited Partner Company 
    Canada 
      Sybron Canada LP 
    Canada 
      Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      TH Finance Limited  
    United Kingdom 
      Trojan Technologies 
    Canada 
      U.S. Peroxide, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Videojet Argentina S.R.L. 
    Argentina 
      Videojet China Trading 
    China 
      Videojet Do Brasil Com rcio de Equipamentos Para Codifica  o Industrial Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Videojet Technologies (I) Pvt. Ltd 
    India 
      Videojet Technologies Europe B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Videojet Technologies Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Viqua 
    Canada 
      VR Finance Company  
    United Kingdom 
      X-Rite Asia Pacific Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      X-Rite Europe GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      X-Rite Incorporated 
    Michigan 
      Zhuhai S.E.Z. Videojet Electronics Ltd. 
    China 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 dhr-20161231xexx231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1  
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements: 
  Registration Statement on Form S-3  

Registration Statements on Form S-8  

of our reports dated   February 21, 2017  , with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Danaher Corporation and subsidiaries for the year ended   December 31, 2016  .  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 dhr-20161231xexx311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION 
  I, Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., certify that: 
           1. 
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Danaher Corporation;  
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     Date: 
    February 21, 2017 
    By: 
    /s/ Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Name: 
    Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Title: 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 dhr-20161231xexx312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION 
  I, Daniel L. Comas, certify that: 
           1. 
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Danaher Corporation;  
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     Date: 
    February 21, 2017 
    By: 
    /s/ Daniel L. Comas 

Name: 
    Daniel L. Comas 

Title: 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 dhr-20161231xexx321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge, Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Danaher Corporation. 
    
                     Date: 
    February 21, 2017 
    By: 
    /s/ Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Name: 
    Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 

Title: 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 

This certification accompanies the Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Danaher Corporation specifically incorporates it by reference. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 dhr-20161231xexx322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Daniel L. Comas, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge, Danaher Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Danaher Corporation. 
    
                     Date: 
    February 21, 2017 
    By: 
    /s/ Daniel L. Comas 

Name: 
    Daniel L. Comas 

Title: 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

This certification accompanies the Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that Danaher Corporation specifically incorporates it by reference. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 dhr-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 dhr-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 dhr-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 dhr-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 dhr-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 dhr-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

