<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170217_10-K_edgar_data_1551152_0001551152-17-000004_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18183804</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>504307</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>954582</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6381722</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7602695</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2386576</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>182</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001551152-17-000004.hdr.sgml : 20170217
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170217121905
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001551152-17-000004
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		120
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170217
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170217

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AbbVie Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001551152
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				320375147
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-35565
		FILM NUMBER:		17620484

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NORTH WAUKEGAN ROAD
		CITY:			NORTH CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(847) 932-7900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NORTH WAUKEGAN ROAD
		CITY:			NORTH CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001551152-17-000004.txt : 20170217

10-K
 1
 abbv-12312016x10k.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 
  FORM 10-K 

Commission file number 001-35565 
  
  AbbVie Inc. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

  Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of Each Class 
      
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
      Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 
  Chicago Stock Exchange 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
  Yes   x           No   o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. 
  Yes   o          No   x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
  Yes   x          No   o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 
  Yes   x         No   o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.                           Large Accelerated Filer   x 
      
    Accelerated Filer   o 
      
    Non-accelerated Filer   o 
     (Do not check if a 
  smaller reporting company) 
      
    Smaller Reporting Company   o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). 
  Yes   o         No   x 
  The aggregate market value of the 1,610,874,586 shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of AbbVie Inc.'s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2016), was   $99,729,245,619  . AbbVie has no non-voting common equity. 
  Number of common shares outstanding as of   January 31, 2017  :   1,593,920,285    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the   2017   AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 20, 2017. 

ABBVIE INC. 
  FORM 10-K 
  FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,   2016    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page No. 
       PART I  

Item 1. 
     BUSINESS  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     RISK FACTORS  
    10 
      Item 1B. 
     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  
    20 
      Item 2. 
     PROPERTIES  
    20 
      Item 3. 
     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  
    21 
      Item 4. 
     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  
    21 
        
     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  
    22 

PART II  

Item 5. 
     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  
    24 
      Item 6. 
     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  
    26 
      Item 7. 
     MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
    28 
      Item 7A. 
     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  
    45 
      Item 8. 
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  
    47 
      Item 9. 
     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES  
    95 
      Item 9A. 
     CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
    95 
      Item 9B. 
     OTHER INFORMATION  
    98 

PART III  

Item 10. 
     DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT  
    99 
      Item 11. 
     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
    99 
      Item 12. 
     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  
    100 
      Item 13. 
     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  
    100 
      Item 14. 
     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  
    100 

PART IV  

Item 15. 
     EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
    101 
        
     SIGNATURES  
    102 
        
     EXHIBIT INDEX  
    103 

PART I 
   
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 
  AbbVie   (1)    is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology, including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis; metabolic diseases, including thyroid disease and complications associated with cystic fibrosis; as well as other serious health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines, including more than 50 investigational programs in clinical development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology, oncology and neurology, with additional targeted investment in cystic fibrosis and women's health. 
  AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. 
  On June 1, 2016, AbbVie acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in Stemcentrx, Inc. (Stemcentrx), a privately held biotechnology company. The aggregate upfront consideration paid by AbbVie in connection with the acquisition was approximately $5.8 billion. The transaction expands AbbVie s oncology pipeline by adding the late-stage asset rovalpituzumab tesirine (Rova-T), four additional early-stage clinical compounds in solid tumor indications and a significant portfolio of pre-clinical assets. Rova-T is currently in registrational trials for small cell lung cancer and in early-stage clinical development for other solid tumors. 
  Segments 
  AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the sales information related to HUMIRA included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations." 
  Products 
  AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.    
  _______________________________________________________________________________ 
    
           (1) 
    As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the terms "AbbVie" or "the company" refer to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. 

HUMIRA.      HUMIRA (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in the United States, Canada and Mexico (collectively, North America) and in the European Union: 
                   Condition 
      
    Principal Markets 
      Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Psoriatic arthritis 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Ankylosing spondylitis 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Adult Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe chronic) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (moderate to severe polyarticular) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Axial spondyloarthropathy 
      
    European Union 
      Pediatric Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Hidradenitis Suppurativa (moderate to severe) 
      
    North America, European Union 
      Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis 
      
    European Union 
      Non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis 
      
    North America, European Union 

HUMIRA is also approved in Japan for the treatment of intestinal Beh et's disease. 
  HUMIRA is sold in numerous other markets worldwide, including Japan, China, Brazil and Australia, and accounted for approximately 63% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2016. 
  AbbVie continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology, gastroenterology (pediatric ulcerative colitis), and dermatology (pediatric psoriasis). The indication for non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration on June 2016. AbbVie continues to work on HUMIRA formulation and delivery enhancements to improve convenience and the overall patient experience. 
    
  Oncology products.     AbbVie s oncology products target some of the most complex and difficult-to-treat cancers, including hematologic and solid cancers. 
             IMBRUVICA.      IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) is a first-in-class, oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK). IMBRUVICA is currently approved for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), CLL patients who have del 17p and patients with Waldenstr m's macroglobulinemia. IMBRUVICA is also approved for the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one prior therapy. Accelerated approval was granted for the MCL indication based on overall response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. In January 2017, the FDA also approved IMBRUVICA for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who require systemic therapy and have received at least one prior anti-CD20-based therapy. IMBRUVICA was one of the first medicines to receive a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and IMBRUVICA is one of the few therapies to receive four separate designations. 
    Venclexta.      Venclexta   (venetoclax) is approved to treat people with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with 17p deletion, who have received at least one prior treatment. Venclexta is the first FDA-approved treatment that targets the B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) protein, which supports cancer cell growth and is overexpressed in many patients with CLL. Venclexta has recently been approved in the EU for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in patients with 17p deletion or TP53 mutation and are unsuitable for or have failed a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor and for the treatment of CLL in absence of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation who have failed both chemoimmunotherapy and a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor. 
          Virology Products.   AbbVie's virology products address unmet needs for patients living with the hepatitis C virus and HIV-1. 
  HCV products.      VIEKIRA PAK (ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir tablets; dasabuvir tablets) is an all-oral, short-course, interferon-free therapy, with or without ribavirin, for the treatment of adult patients with genotype 1 chronic HCV, including those with compensated cirrhosis. In Europe, AbbVie's HCV treatment is marketed as VIEKIRAX + EXVIERA  

and is approved for use in patients with genotype 1 and genotype 4 HCV. In July 2015, the FDA approved AbbVie's TECHNIVIE (ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir) for use in combination with ribavirin for the treatment of adults with genotype 4 HCV infection in the United States. 
              Additional Virology products.      AbbVie's additional virology products include: 
  Kaletra.       Kaletra (lopinavir/ritonavir), which is also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets, is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine that contains two protease inhibitors: lopinavir and ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other anti-HIV-1 medications as a treatment that maintains viral suppression in people with HIV-1. 
  Norvir.       Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
  Synagis.       Synagis (palivizumab) is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe respiratory disease caused by RSV. 
  Metabolics/Hormones products.      Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including testosterone deficiency due to certain underlying conditions, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism. These products include: 
  AndroGel.       AndroGel (testosterone gel) is a testosterone replacement therapy for males diagnosed with symptomatic low testosterone due to certain underlying conditions that is available in two strengths: 1 percent and 1.62 percent. 
  Creon.      Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis and several other conditions. 
  Synthroid.       Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. 
  AbbVie has the rights to sell AndroGel, Creon and Synthroid only in the United States. 
  Endocrinology products.      Lupron (leuprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection. 
   Other products.      AbbVie's other products include: 
  Duopa and Duodopa   (carbidopa and levodopa).     AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States. 
  Anesthesia products.      Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide for human use. 
  ZINBRYTA.    ZINBRYTA (daclizumab) is a once-monthly, self-administered, subcutaneous treatment for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), which was approved by the FDA in May 2016. Because of its safety profile, the use of ZINBRYTA is generally reserved for patients who have had an inadequate response to two or more therapies indicated for the treatment of MS. The European Commission granted marketing authorization for ZINBRYTA in July 2016.  
  Marketing, Sales and Distribution Capabilities 
  AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell and distribute its products worldwide. 
  AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States all of the company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders, payors, physicians and country regulatory bodies. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products. 

AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels and other factors. 
  In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies and patients. In   2016  , three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 41% of AbbVie's   2016   gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. These wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions of sale. 
  Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 
  No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. 
  Orders are generally filled on a current basis and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business. 
  Competition 
  The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with anti-TNF products and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products compete with other available hepatitis C treatment options. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. New products or treatments brought to market by AbbVie s competitors could cause revenues for AbbVie s products to decrease due to price reductions and sales volume decreases.  
          Biosimilars.      Competition for AbbVie s biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as  biosimilars.  For example, the FDA has approved a biosimilar of HUMIRA in the United States and final approval of a biosimilar of HUMIRA in the EU is imminent. Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent of biologics has also raised complex regulatory issues and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns because the cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small molecule) medications, and because many expensive biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products, as are significant investments in marketing, distribution, and sales organization activities, which may limit the number of biosimilar competitors. 
  In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and implementing regulations. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the Public Health Service Act, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is more complex than the approval process for, and science behind, generic or other follow-on versions of small molecule products. This added complexity is due to steps needed to ensure that the safety and efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies) and clinical studies. The law also requires that the biosimilar must be for a condition of use approved for the original biologic and that the manufacturing facility meets the standards necessary to assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure and potent. 
  Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered substitutable for the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or  

switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The law continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation and meaning remains subject to substantial uncertainty. 
  In the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have had a mixed impact on the market share of incumbent products, with significant variation by product. 
   Other Competitive Products.      Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been approved since HUMIRA was first introduced in 2003, most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally administered products. 
  Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity 
  Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie s intellectual property is materially valuable to the company and AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process, and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a  patent term restoration,  for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Biological products licensed under the Public Health Service Act are similarly eligible for terms of patent restoration. 
  Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the longest existing exclusivity (patent or regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity. 
  Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed a minimum of three years and a maximum of 14 years. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods. 
  Biologics may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to greater regulatory scrutiny and more rigorous requirements for approval of follow-on biosimilar products than for small molecule generic pharmaceutical products, which can reduce the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products. 

AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these patents and applications. 
  These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2017 to the late 2030s, in aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of AbbVie s business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the company s business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab expired in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022. 
  In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark IMBRUVICA), those related to ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir (which are sold under the trademarks VIEKIRA PAK, VIEKIRAX, EXVIERA, and HOLKIRA PAK), and those related to testosterone (which is sold under the trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027. The United States composition of matter patents covering ombitasvir, paritaprevir and dasabuvir are expected to expire in 2032, 2031 and 2029, respectively. 
  AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie s employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 
  Licensing and Other Arrangements 
  In addition to its independent efforts to develop and market products, AbbVie enters into arrangements such as licensing arrangements, strategic alliances, co-promotion arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, and joint ventures. These licensing and other arrangements typically include, among other terms and conditions, non-refundable upfront license fees and milestone payments. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on AbbVie s licensing and other agreements. 
  Third Party Agreements 
  AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, analytical services and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. For example, the filling and packaging of HUMIRA syringes to be sold outside of the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie does not currently believe that this agreement is material because AbbVie's business is not substantially at risk without access to these facilities. AbbVie maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes to reduce the risk of any supply disruption and its own syringe-filling and packaging facility in the United States is approved to supply syringes to primary markets outside of the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish and packaging services, transportation and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie also maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption. 
  AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements Other Licensing   Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 
  Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 
  AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the world. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers. AbbVie has not experienced any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages that impacted fulfillment of product demand. 

Research and Development Activities 
  AbbVie makes a significant investment in research and development and has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team. AbbVie also partners with third parties, such as biotechnology companies, other pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions to identify and prioritize promising new treatments that complement and enhance AbbVie s existing portfolio. 
  The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes the following phases: 
             
    Phase 1 involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and potential dosing. 
                
    Phase 2 tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients. 
                
    Phase 3 tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria. 
     The clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. 
  The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication. 
  In addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials, sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug. 
  AbbVie spent approximately $4.4 billion in   2016  , $4.3 billion in   2015   and $3.3 billion in   2014   on research to discover and develop new products, indications and processes and to improve existing products and processes. These expenses consisted primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel, license fees, consulting payments, contract research, clinical drug supply manufacturing, the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities, clinical trial costs and collaboration fees and expenses. 
  Regulation Discovery and Clinical Development 
          United States.      Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources and takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). 
  Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional materials and activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing procedures and finished product must be included in the NDA or BLA, and approved by the FDA. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials or patient registries, or additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future. 

Outside the United States.      AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The approval requirements and process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure. 
  In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application. 
  The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a large developed market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries also require that local clinical studies be conducted in order to obtain regulatory approval in the country. 
  The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management Plans). 
  Regulation Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing 
  The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment and other fees. 
  Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties. 
  In addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy and outcomes of health care products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use. 
  Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products  

directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures in the United States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future. 
          United States.      Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities. 
  In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D. 
  Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. In addition, AbbVie provides a discount of 50% for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole." 
  The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. 
  AbbVie expects debate to continue during 2017 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services. AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above. 
  AbbVie is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program and contains reporting obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. 
          European Union.      The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply, pharmacovigilance and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to supplement these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products. 

Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems. 
          Japan.      In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available. 
          Emerging Markets.      Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls and in others through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. 
  Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental action. 
  Environmental Matters 
  AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital expenditures for pollution control in   2016   were approximately $5 million and operating expenditures were $28 million. In   2017  , capital expenditures for pollution control are estimated to be $15 million and operating expenditures are estimated to be approximately $30 million. 
  Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. 
  Employees 
  AbbVie employed approximately 30,000 persons as of January 31, 2017. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees. 
  Internet Information 
  Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website (  www.abbvieinvestor.com  ) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
  AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website (  www.abbvieinvestor.com  ). 
   
  ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The risk factors generally have been separated into two groups: risks related to AbbVie's business and risks related to AbbVie's common stock. Based on the information currently known to it, AbbVie believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting it in each of these categories of risks. However, the  

risks and uncertainties AbbVie faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below and may not be in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to AbbVie or that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 
            If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline. 
  Risks Related to AbbVie's Business 
  The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings. 
  AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of its products. In particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major markets outside of the United States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of AbbVie's products. 
  As patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie will or could face competition from lower priced generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time. If AbbVie's competitive position is compromised because of generics or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposals that are enacted into law could increase the impact of generic competition. 
  AbbVie's principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations," and litigation regarding these patents is described in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The United States composition of matter patent for HUMIRA, which is AbbVie's largest product and had worldwide net revenues of approximately $16.1 billion in   2016  , expired in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. Because HUMIRA is a biologic and biologics cannot be readily substituted, it is uncertain what impact the loss of patent protection would have on the sales of HUMIRA. 
            AbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings. 
  Third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For example, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products file, and may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by AbbVie by asserting that the patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In addition, petitioners have filed, and may continue to file, challenges to the validity of AbbVie patents under the 2011 Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, which created   inter partes   review and post grant review procedures for challenging patent validity in administrative proceedings at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 
  Although most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property rights. For example, court decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection. In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies, such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered, compulsory licenses could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations. 
  AbbVie normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation, administrative proceedings and other challenges to AbbVie's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a patented product. To the extent AbbVie's intellectual property is successfully challenged or circumvented or to the extent such intellectual property does not allow AbbVie to compete effectively, AbbVie's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's intellectual property rights or require compulsory licensing of AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced. 

A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's future profitability and financial condition. 
  Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject AbbVie to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition. 
             Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA revenues could have a material and negative impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows. 
  HUMIRA accounted for approximately 63% of AbbVie's total net revenues in   2016  . Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA's revenues could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection for HUMIRA, the approval of biosimilars of HUMIRA, the discovery of previously unknown side effects or impaired efficacy, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective or less expensive treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of HUMIRA for any reason. 
             AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause its revenues and profitability to decline. 
  To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products, and such launches must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues of profitable products that are lost to or displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie commits substantial effort, funds, and other resources to research and development and must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical industry is inherent in the research and development of new products, and failure can occur at any point in the research and development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of competing therapies, failure to achieve positive clinical or pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standards of care, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or delays in the approval of new products and new indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. 
  Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy once such candidate receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also consume time and resources and may delay submitting the pharmaceutical product candidate for approval. AbbVie cannot guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made with respect to each pharmaceutical product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely affect AbbVie's future results of operations. 
  Even if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing clinical preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's products to become obsolete, causing AbbVie's revenues and operating results to suffer. 
             A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of its products. 
  AbbVie depends on alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term pharmaceutical pipeline. For example, AbbVie is collaborating with Roche Holding AG to develop and commercialize a next-generation Bcl-2 inhibitor, Venclexta (venetoclax), for patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia and AbbVie is investigating its efficacy for additional indications. 

Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships between AbbVie and these third parties, could have an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative relationships for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie and its collaboration partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of intellectual property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation, administrative proceedings or arbitration. 
             Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations. 
  The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited and governmental regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is subject to regulations that are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture because production inputs are derived from living animal or plant material, and some biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully discover, develop, manufacture and sell biologics including HUMIRA could adversely impact AbbVie's business and results of operations. 
             AbbVie's biologic products are subject to competition from biosimilars. 
  The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act creates a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the United States and could allow competitors to reference data from biologic products already approved. In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. In addition, companies are developing biosimilars in other countries that could compete with AbbVie s biologic products. For example, the FDA has approved a biosimilar of HUMIRA in the United States and final approval of a biosimilar of HUMIRA in the EU is imminent, and Boehringer Ingelheim s marketing authorization application to the EMA and its application to the United States FDA have been accepted for review. As competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing AbbVie s biologic products, AbbVie s products may become subject to competition from such biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure and consequences. Expiration or successful challenge of AbbVie s applicable patent rights could also trigger competition from other products, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. As a result, AbbVie could face more litigation and administrative proceedings with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to its biologic products. 
            New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations. 
  AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with anti-TNF products and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states and AbbVie s virology products compete with other available hepatitis C treatment options. These competitors may introduce new products or develop technological advances that compete with AbbVie s products in therapeutic areas such as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology and neuroscience. AbbVie cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by competitors of new products or technological advances. Such competing products may be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than AbbVie s products, and this could negatively impact AbbVie s business and results of operations. 
             The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing AbbVie's products, AbbVie's business could suffer. 
  The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for AbbVie's products, changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of  

products produced, physical limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural disasters and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded and AbbVie may experience product shortages or incur added expenses. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. 
             AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers, and an interruption in the supply of those products could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations. 
  AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers. The failure of these single-source suppliers to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory noncompliance or physical disruption at a manufacturing site may impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, which could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations. Finding an alternative supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will be able to reach agreement with alternative providers or that regulatory authorities would approve AbbVie's use of such alternatives. AbbVie does, however, carry business interruption insurance, which provides a degree of protection in the case of a failure by a single-source supplier. 
             Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and financial condition. 
  Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety or efficacy issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing Phase 4 trials), or if governments change standards regarding safety, efficacy or labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, AbbVie may voluntarily provide or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be halted by AbbVie or by regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of AbbVie's products. 
  New data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to real or perceived safety issues or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products. 
             AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and lawsuits that may adversely affect its business and results of operations. 
  In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's products or the products of other companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of operations and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in market share for the product in question, lower income and exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured. 
             AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating earnings, and changes in the terms of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations. 
  Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business Regulation Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient access to health care, or other factors, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings  

will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, AbbVie's business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future. 
  AbbVie is subject to increasing public and legislative pressure with respect to pharmaceutical pricing. In the United States, practices of managed care groups, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and United States federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, contribute to pricing pressures. The potential for continuing changes to the health care system in the United States and the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid and private sector beneficiaries could result in additional pricing pressures. 
  In numerous major markets worldwide, the government plays a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In particular, many European countries have ongoing government-mandated price reductions for many pharmaceutical products, and AbbVie anticipates continuing pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries in pricing regulations could lead to third-party cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in a reduction in future revenues and operating earnings. 
  Rebates related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs, arise from laws and regulations. AbbVie cannot predict if additional government initiatives to contain health care costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory requirements that include higher or incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and discount programs arise from contractual agreements with private payers. Various factors, including market factors and the ability of private payers to control patient access to products, may provide payers the leverage to negotiate higher or additional rebates or discounts that could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations. 
             AbbVie is subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. 
  AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal and state authorities, as described in Item 1, "Business Regulation Discovery and Clinical Development." The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues and substantial additional costs. 
  In addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and post-marketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. AbbVie must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. 
  Possible regulatory actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of AbbVie's products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt AbbVie's business and have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. 
             Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business practices, and restrict its operations in the future. 
  The health care industry is subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit programs reimbursement, rebates, price reporting and regulation and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require AbbVie to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt AbbVie's business and result in a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. 

AbbVie could be subject to increased monetary penalties and/or other sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs, if it fails to comply with the terms of the May 7, 2012 resolution of the Department of Justice's investigation into sales and marketing activities for Depakote. 
  On May 7, 2012, Abbott settled United States federal and 49 state investigations into its sales and marketing activities for Depakote by pleading guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, agreeing to pay approximately $700 million in criminal fines and forfeitures and approximately $900 million to resolve civil claims, and submitting to a term of probation. The term of probation ended January 1, 2016 upon AbbVie satisfying all of the probation conditions. However, if AbbVie violates any remaining terms of the plea agreement, it may face additional monetary sanctions and other such remedies as the court deems appropriate. 
  In addition, Abbott entered into a five-year CIA with the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services (OIG). The effective date of the CIA is October 11, 2012. The obligations of the CIA have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie. The CIA requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications and resolutions from AbbVie's board of directors, among other requirements. Compliance with the requirements of the settlement will impose additional costs and burdens on AbbVie, including in the form of employee training, third party reviews, compliance monitoring, reporting obligations and management attention. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the OIG may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. AbbVie and Abbott may be subject to third party claims and shareholder lawsuits in connection with the settlement, and AbbVie may be required to indemnify all or a portion of Abbott's costs. 
             The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline. 
  AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Net revenues outside of the United States make up approximately 38% of AbbVie's total net revenues in   2016  . The risks associated with AbbVie's operations outside the United States include: 
             
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 
                
    changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; 
                
    multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to manufacture, market and sell its products; 
                
    differing local product preferences and product requirements; 
                
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 
                
    difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations; 
                
    differing labor regulations; 
                
    potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; 
                
    political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues; 
                
    price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental action; 
                
    inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates; 
                
    potential deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain non-U.S. countries, including in Europe and Latin America; and 
                
    potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act. 
     Events contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and profitability. 

AbbVie's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of its merger with Pharmacyclics will depend on its ability to effectively and profitably commercialize IMBRUVICA  (ibrutinib). 
  The anticipated benefits of AbbVie's merger with Pharmacyclics will depend on AbbVie's ability to: effectively and profitably commercialize IMBRUVICA, including AbbVie's ability to create and meet continued market demand, achieve market acceptance and generate product sales; ensure that the active pharmaceutical ingredient for IMBRUVICA and the finished product are manufactured in sufficient quantities and in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with acceptable quality and pricing to meet commercial demand; and ensure that the entire supply chain efficiently and consistently delivers IMBRUVICA to AbbVie's customers. The commercialization of IMBRUVICA may not be successful due to, among other things, unexpected challenges from competitors, new safety issues or concerns being reported that may impact or narrow the approved indications, the relative price of IMBRUVICA as compared to alternative treatment options, and changes to the label for IMBRUVICA that further restrict its marketing. If the commercialization of IMBRUVICA is unsuccessful, AbbVie's ability to generate revenue from product sales and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will be adversely affected. 
             AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of assets, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability. 
  AbbVie may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of some of its assets, as part of its business strategy. AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If AbbVie is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. AbbVie may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 
  Additionally, changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate. 
             AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States and, accordingly, its results of operations could be adversely affected if they encounter financial difficulties. 
  In   2016  , three wholesale distributors AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes it on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations. 
             AbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. 
  The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors. These consequences include, among other things, requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt and reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business. To the extent AbbVie incurs additional indebtedness, these risks could increase. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance its debt. 
             AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. 
  AbbVie may need to seek additional financing for its general corporate purposes. For example, it may need to increase its investment in research and development activities or need funds to make acquisitions. AbbVie may be unable to obtain any  

desired additional financing on terms favorable to it, if at all. If AbbVie loses its investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If AbbVie raises additional funds by issuing debt or entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its operations due to restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect AbbVie's business. 
             AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of those systems could adversely affect AbbVie's business. 
  AbbVie relies on sophisticated information technology systems to operate its business. These systems are potentially vulnerable to malicious intrusion, random attack, loss of data privacy, or breakdown. Data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may cause sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to AbbVie, its patients, customers or business partners, to be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Although AbbVie has invested in the protection of its data and information technology and also monitors its systems on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in AbbVie's information technology systems that could adversely affect AbbVie's business. 
             Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition. 
  Many other factors can affect AbbVie's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including: 
             
    changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product marketing application standards and environmental laws; 
                
    differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pension and post-employment benefits, stock-based compensation, intangibles and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation and contingent consideration, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum, compared to the actual amount; 
                
    changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities and supplies), interest rates, market value of AbbVie's equity investments and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts; 
                
    changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its employee benefit trusts; 
                
    changes in the ability of third parties that provide information technology, accounting, human resources, payroll and other outsourced services to AbbVie to meet their contractual obligations to AbbVie; and 
                
    changes in business, economic and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups. 
       
  Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock 
             AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock. 
  Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall within the discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities." AbbVie's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will continue to pay a dividend in the future. 
             An AbbVie stockholder's percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future. 
  In the future, a stockholder's percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market transactions, equity awards that AbbVie will be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions, or other purposes. AbbVie's employees have options to purchase shares of its common stock as a result of conversion of their  

Abbott stock options (in whole or in part) to AbbVie stock options. AbbVie anticipates its compensation committee will grant additional stock options or other stock-based awards to its employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock. From time to time, AbbVie will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its employees under AbbVie's employee benefits plans. 
  In addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over AbbVie's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as AbbVie's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's common stock. For example, AbbVie could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. 
             Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock. 
  AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: 
             
    the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting; 
                
    the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; 
                
    a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause; 
                
    the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and 
                
    the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80% of AbbVie's voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of AbbVie's directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions. 
     In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. 
  AbbVie believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors and by providing AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and AbbVie's stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance and other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify "forward looking statements," which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. In particular, information included under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contain forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated include the matters described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." AbbVie does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is required by applicable securities law to do so. 
   
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None. 
   
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

AbbVie's corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. AbbVie's manufacturing plants are in the following locations: 
    
                   United States 
      
    Outside the United States 
      Abbott Park, Illinois* 
      
    Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy 
      Barceloneta, Puerto Rico 
      
    Cork, Ireland 
      Jayuya, Puerto Rico 
      
    Ludwigshafen, Germany 
      North Chicago, Illinois 
      
    Singapore* 
      South San Francisco, California 
      
    Sligo, Ireland 
      Worcester, Massachusetts* 

Wyandotte, Michigan* 

_______________________________________________________________________________ 
           * 
    Leased property. 
     In addition to the above, AbbVie has other manufacturing facilities worldwide. AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and provide adequate production capacity. 
  In the United States, including Puerto Rico, AbbVie has one distribution center. AbbVie also has research and development facilities in the United States located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; North Chicago, Illinois; Redwood City, California; South San Francisco, California; Sunnyvale, California; Cambridge, Massachusetts; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, AbbVie's principal research and development facilities are located in Ludwigshafen, Germany. 
  Except as noted, the plants in the United States listed above are owned by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie. The remaining manufacturing plants and all other facilities are owned or leased by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie. 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Information pertaining to legal proceedings is provided in Note 14, "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and is incorporated by reference herein. 
   
  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  The following table lists AbbVie's executive officers, each of whom was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012, except as otherwise indicated: 
    
                       Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      Richard A. Gonzalez 
      
    63 
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
      Carlos Alban 
      
    54 
      
    Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations 
      William J. Chase 
      
    49 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
      Henry O. Gosebruch* 
      
    44 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer 
      Laura J. Schumacher 
      
    53 
      
    Executive Vice President, External Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
      Michael E. Severino, M.D.* 
      
    51 
      
    Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer 
      Timothy J. Richmond 
      
    50 
      
    Senior Vice President, Human Resources 
      Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D. 
      
    53 
      
    Senior Vice President, Operations 
      Thomas A. Hurwich** 
      
    56 
      
    Vice President, Controller 

_______________________________________________________________________________ 
           * 
    Mr. Gosebruch was first appointed as a corporate officer in December 2015 and Dr. Severino was first appointed as a corporate officer in June 2014. 
              ** 
    As previously announced, Mr. Hurwich will resign as AbbVie's Vice President, Controller, effective February 28, 2017. 
       
  Mr. Gonzalez is AbbVie's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. He served as Abbott's Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group from 2010 to 2012, and was responsible for Abbott's worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial operations, research and development, and manufacturing. He has also served as President, Abbott Ventures Inc., Abbott's medical technology investment arm, from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in 1977 and held various management positions before briefly retiring in 2007, including Abbott's President and Chief Operating Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer of Abbott's Medical Products Group, Senior Vice President and President of Abbott's former Hospital Products Division, Vice President and President of Abbott's Health Systems Division, and Divisional Vice President and General Manager for Abbott's Diagnostics Operations in the United States and Canada. 
  Mr. Alban is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations. He served as Abbott's Senior Vice President, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Global Commercial Operations from 2011 to 2012, as Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals from 2009 to 2011, as Vice President, Western Europe and Canada from 2007 to 2009, and as Vice President, European Operations from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Alban joined Abbott in 1986. 
  Mr. Chase is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Licensing and Acquisitions from 2010 to 2012, as Vice President, Treasurer from 2007 to 2010, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller of Abbott International from 2004 to 2007. Mr. Chase joined Abbott in 1989. 
  Mr. Gosebruch is AbbVie's Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer. He worked for more than 20 years in the Mergers   Acquisitions Group at J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, serving as Managing Director since 2007 and as Co-Head of M A North America during 2015. Mr. Gosebruch joined AbbVie in 2015. 
  Ms. Schumacher is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, External Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, responsible for AbbVie's externally-facing functions of Health Economics Outcomes Research, Government Affairs, Corporate Responsibility, Brand and Communications. She also leads all legal functions and biotherapeutics strategy. Prior to AbbVie's separation from Abbott, Ms. Schumacher served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from 2007 to 2012, and as Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel from 2005 to 2007. Both at Abbott and AbbVie, Ms. Schumacher also led Licensing and Acquisition and Ventures and Early Stage Collaborations. At Abbott, Ms. Schumacher was also responsible for its Office of Ethics and Compliance. Ms. Schumacher joined Abbott in 1990. She serves on the board of General Dynamics Corporation. 
  Dr. Severino is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Severino served at Amgen Inc. as Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from 2012 to 2014, as  

Vice President, Global Development from 2010 to 2012 and as Vice President, Therapeutic Area Head, General Medicine and Inflammation Global Clinical Development from 2007 to 2012. He joined AbbVie in 2014. 
  Mr. Richmond is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Human Resources. He served as Abbott's Divisional Vice President of Compensation   Benefits from 2008 to 2012, as Group Vice President of Talent and Rewards from 2007 to 2008, and as Divisional Vice President of Talent Acquisition from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Richmond joined Abbott in 2006. 
  Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Operations. She served as Abbott's Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Supply from 2011 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance, Global Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt joined Abbott in 1993. 
  Mr. Hurwich is AbbVie's Vice President, Controller. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Internal Audit from 2009 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller, Abbott Diagnostics Division from 2003 to 2009. Mr. Hurwich joined Abbott in 1983. 
  The executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the Chairman of the Board. All officers are either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed by the Chairman of the Board after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed above. 

PART II 
   
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT's COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Principal Market 
  The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, AbbVie's common stock is listed on NYSE Euronext Paris and the SIX Swiss Exchange. 

Stockholders 
  There were 52,270 stockholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31,   2017  . 
  Dividends 
  The following table summarizes quarterly cash dividends for the years ended December 31,   2016   and   2015  : 

On October 28, 2016, AbbVie's board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.57 per share to $0.64 per share, payable on February 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of January 13, 2017. The timing, declaration, amount of and payment of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Moreover, if AbbVie determines to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends. 
  Performance Graph 
  The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of AbbVie, the S P 500 Index and the NYSE Arca Pharmaceuticals Index. This graph covers the period from January 2, 2013 (the first day AbbVie's common stock began "regular-way" trading on the NYSE) through   December 31, 2016  . This graph assumes $100 was invested in AbbVie common stock and each index on January 2, 2013 and also assumes the reinvestment of dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 

This performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of AbbVie's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

1. 
    These shares represent:     
     (i)      in addition to AbbVie shares repurchased on the open market under a publicly announced program, if any,             these shares included the shares deemed surrendered to AbbVie to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options   8,853 in October; 3,099 in November; and 6,512 in December, with average exercise prices of $43.87 in October; $43.60 in November; and $44.32 in December. 
    
  (ii)     the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the AbbVie Employee Stock Purchase Plan - zero in October and November; and 20,328 in December.  

These shares do not include the shares surrendered to AbbVie to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units. 
    
           2.  
    On October 20, 2014, AbbVie announced that its board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5.0 billion of its common stock. The board of directors authorized increases to this repurchase program of $5.0 billion in March 2015 and $4.0 billion in April 2016 in anticipation of executing accelerated share repurchase agreements (ASRs) in connection with the acquisitions of Pharmacyclics and Stemcentrx. Purchases of AbbVie shares under this program may be made from time to time at management s discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time.  
       
  On February 16, 2017, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to AbbVie's existing stock repurchase program. The stock repurchase authorization permits shares to be repurchased in open market or private transactions, has no time limit and may be discontinued at any time. 
   
  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following table sets forth AbbVie's selected financial information derived from its (i) audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  ; and (ii) audited combined financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31,   2012  . The historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Abbott's consolidated financial statements and accounting records as if the former research-based pharmaceutical business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods presented. Accordingly, AbbVie's financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented on a combined basis and reflect AbbVie's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the separation, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. 
  The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

n/a Not applicable. 
           (a) 
    AbbVie's historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 reflected an allocation of expenses related to certain Abbott corporate functions, including senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information technology and quality assurance. These expenses were allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues, headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the expense allocation methodology and results to be reasonable. However, the allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie operated as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. Accordingly, the historical financial information presented for periods prior to January 1, 2013 may not be indicative of the results of operations or financial position that would have been achieved if AbbVie had been an independent,   

stand-alone, publicly-traded company during the periods shown or of AbbVie's performance for periods subsequent to December 31, 2012. 
           (b) 
    Results for   2016  ,   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   included higher expenses associated with operating as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded company than the historically derived financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013. The increases include the impact of interest expense on debt issued as a stand-alone company, a higher tax rate and other incremental costs of operating as an independent company. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations" for a discussion of other items that affected the comparability of financial results for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , and the   2013   Form 10-K for   2013   and   2012   financial statements. 
              (c) 
    AbbVie declared regular quarterly cash dividends in 2013 aggregating $1.60 per share of common stock. In addition, a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock was declared from pre-separation earnings on January 4, 2013 and was recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. 
              (d) 
    On January 1, 2013, Abbott distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock to shareholders of Abbott common stock. For periods prior to the separation, the weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding were based on the number of shares of AbbVie common stock outstanding on the distribution date. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   and the   2013   Form 10-K for   2013   and   2012  . 
              (e) 
    On May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics for approximately $20.8 billion, including cash consideration of $12.4 billion and equity consideration of approximately 128 million shares of AbbVie common stock valued at $8.4 billion. In connection with the acquisition, AbbVie issued $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes, of which approximately $11.5 billion was used to finance the acquisition and approximately $5.0 billion was used to finance an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) program. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Note 9 for information on the senior notes and Note 12 for information on the ASR. 
              (f) 
    In June 2016, AbbVie acquired Stemcentrx for approximately $6.4 billion, including cash consideration of $1.9 billion, equity consideration of approximately 62.4 million shares of AbbVie common stock valued at $3.9 billion and contingent consideration of approximately $620 million. In connection with the acquisition AbbVie issued $7.8 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. Of the $7.7 billion net proceeds, approximately $1.9 billion was used to finance the acquisition, approximately $3.8 billion was used to finance an ASR and approximately $2.0 billion was used to repay the company's outstanding term loan that was due to mature in November 2016. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the acquisition of Stemcentrx, Note 9 for information on the senior notes and Note 12 for information on the ASR. 
              (g) 
    Includes current portion of both long-term debt and lease obligations. 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) as of December 31,   2016   and   2015   and results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016  . This commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 
  EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
  Company Overview 
  AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company formed in 2013 following separation from Abbott Laboratories (Abbott). AbbVie's mission is to use its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology, including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis; metabolic diseases, including thyroid disease and complications associated with cystic fibrosis; as well as other serious health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology, oncology and neurology, with additional targeted investment in cystic fibrosis and women's health. 
  AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies and patients. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has approximately 30,000 employees. AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products. 
  2016   Financial Results 
  AbbVie's strategy has focused on delivering strong financial results, advancing and investing in its pipeline and returning value to shareholders while ensuring a strong, sustainable growth business over the long term. In   2016  , AbbVie's worldwide net revenues grew by 12% to $25.6 billion, driven primarily by the continued strength of HUMIRA, post-acquisition revenue growth related to IMBRUVICA and revenue growth in other key products including Creon and Duodopa. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net revenues of Kaletra and VIEKIRA. 
  The company's financial performance in   2016   included delivering diluted earnings per share of $3.63.   2016   results included the following after-tax costs: (i) $615 million related to the amortization of intangible assets; (ii) a $298 million currency devaluation loss related to Venezuela; (iii) $273 million related to the acquisition of Stemcentrx and   Boehringer Ingelheim (  BI) compounds; (iv) $228 million for changes in contingent consideration; (v) $200 million for acquired in-process research and development (IPR  (vi) $187 million associated with a tax law change for regulations issued in the fourth quarter of 2016 that revised the treatment of foreign currency translation gains and losses for certain operations; and (vii) milestone payments of $80 million. Additionally, 2016 financial results reflected added funding to support AbbVie s emerging mid- and late-stage pipeline assets and continued investment in AbbVie s growth brands.  
  In   2016  , the company generated cash flows from operations of $7.0 billion, which AbbVie utilized to continue to enhance its pipeline through licensing and collaboration activities, pay cash dividends to stockholders of $3.7 billion and repurchase approximately 34 million shares for $2.1 billion in the open market (excluding the shares repurchased under an accelerated repurchase agreement). In October 2016, AbbVie's board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.64 per share of common stock payable in February 2017. This reflects an increase of approximately 12% over the previous quarterly rate of $0.57 per share of common stock. 
  In April 2016, AbbVie acquired all rights to risankizumab (BI 655066), an anti-IL-23 monoclonal biologic antibody, from BI pursuant to a global collaboration agreement. In June 2016, AbbVie acquired Stemcentrx, a privately held biotechnology company. The transaction expands AbbVie s oncology pipeline by adding the late-stage asset rovalpituzumab tesirine (Rova-T), four additional early-stage clinical compounds in solid tumor indications and a significant portfolio of pre-clinical assets. Rova-T is currently in registrational trials for small cell lung cancer and in early-stage clinical development for other solid tumors. In connection with the Stemcentrx acquisition, AbbVie s board of directors authorized a $4.0 billion increase to  

AbbVie s existing share repurchase program. Promptly following the closing of the Stemcentrx transaction, AbbVie entered into and executed a $3.8 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with a third party financial institution to reacquire nearly all of the newly-issued equity. In May 2016, AbbVie issued $7.8 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. Of the $7.7 billion net proceeds, $2.0 billion was used to repay the company s outstanding term loan that was due to mature in November 2016, approximately $1.9 billion was used to finance the acquisition of Stemcentrx and approximately $3.8 billion was used to finance the ASR. In November 2016, the company issued  3.6 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes and repaid the company s outstanding 1.75% senior notes that were due to mature in November 2017. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the acquisition of Stemcentrx and BI compounds, Note 9 for additional information related to the senior Euro notes and Note 12 for additional information related to the ASR.  
  2017 Strategic Objectives 
  AbbVie's mission is to be an innovation-driven, patient-focused specialty biopharmaceutical company capable of achieving top-tier financial performance through outstanding execution and a consistent stream of innovative new medicines. AbbVie intends to continue to advance its mission in a number of ways, including: (i) growing revenues through continued strong performance from its existing portfolio of on-market products, including its flagship brands, HUMIRA and IMBRUVICA as well as growth from pipeline products; (ii) expanding operating margins; (iii) continued investment in its pipeline in support of opportunities in immunology, oncology, virology and neurology as well as continued investment in key on-market products; (iv) augmentation of its pipeline through concerted focus on strategic licensing, acquisition and partnering activity with a focus on identifying compelling programs that fit AbbVie's strategic criteria; and (v) returning cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. In addition, AbbVie anticipates several regulatory submissions and key data readouts from key clinical trials in the next twelve months. 
  AbbVie expects to achieve its strategic objectives as follows: 
             
    HUMIRA sales growth by driving biologic penetration across disease categories, increasing market leadership and strong commercial execution. 
                
    IMBRUVICA revenue growth driven by increasing market share within its five currently approved indications. 
                
    The favorable impact of pipeline products approved in 2016 or currently under regulatory review where approval is expected in 2017. These products are described in greater detail in the section labeled "Research and Development" included as part of this Item 7. 
     AbbVie remains committed to driving continued expansion of operating margins and expects to achieve this objective through productivity initiatives in supply chain, ongoing efficiency programs to optimize manufacturing, commercial infrastructure, administrative costs and general corporate expenses and continued leverage from revenue growth. AbbVie also remains committed to returning cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. 
  Research and Development 
  Research and innovation are the cornerstones of AbbVie's business as a global biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie's long-term success depends to a great extent on its ability to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. 
  AbbVie's pipeline currently includes more than 50 compounds or indications in clinical development individually or under collaboration or license agreements and is focused on such important medical specialties as immunology, oncology, virology and neurology along with targeted investments in cystic fibrosis and women's health. Of these programs, more than 30 are in mid- and late-stage development. 
  The following sections summarize transitions of significant programs from Phase 2 development to Phase 3 development as well as developments in significant Phase 3 and registration programs. AbbVie expects multiple Phase 2 programs to transition into Phase 3 programs in the next twelve months. 
  Significant Programs and Developments 
  Immunology 
  HUMIRA 

In May 2016, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) granted approval for HUMIRA for the treatment of pediatric patients aged six years or older, with moderate to severely active Crohn s disease.  

In June 2016, HUMIRA received both U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and EMA approval to treat adults with non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis. HUMIRA is now the first and only FDA-approved non-corticosteroid therapy available for adults with non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis. This approval marks the 10   th    approved indication for HUMIRA in the United States for immune-mediated disease and the 14   th    approved indication in all geographies.  
                
    In November 2016, AbbVie announced that that the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) granted a positive opinion for HUMIRA to treat adolescents with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS). If future approval is granted by the European Commission, HUMIRA will be the first and only treatment option for patients aged 12 and older with HS. HUMIRA was approved for adults with moderate to severe HS by the European Commission in July 2015. 
       
  Risankizumab 

In April 2016, AbbVie acquired all rights to risankizumab (BI 655066), an anti-IL-23 monoclonal biologic antibody in Phase 3 development for psoriasis, from BI pursuant to a global collaboration agreement. AbbVie is also evaluating the potential of this biologic therapy in Crohn s disease, psoriatic arthritis and asthma. In addition to risankizumab, AbbVie also gained rights to an anti-CD40 antibody, BI 655064, currently in Phase 1 development. 

In November 2016, AbbVie announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted risankizumab orphan drug designation for the treatment of pediatric patients with Crohn's disease.  
       
  ABT-494 

AbbVie continued to make progress with ABT-494, the company s selective JAK-1 inhibitor currently in late-stage development for rheumatoid arthritis. In first quarter of 2016, AbbVie initiated three Phase 3 studies in the registrational program. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company started a fifth pivotal trial. 
       
  Other 

In July 2016, following an evaluation of data for the development of ABT-122, a dual-variable domain (DVD) immunoglobulin targeting TNF and IL-17 in Phase 2 trials for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, AbbVie determined that further development of ABT-122 will not be pursued. While the trial data demonstrated that the DVD platform worked well, with clear evidence of biologic activity, the decision was based on a lack a differentiation from other candidates in AbbVie s development pipeline. 
                
    In October 2016, AbbVie opted not to exercise an option to license vobarilizumab, an anti-IL-6R Nanobody, from Ablynx NV based on results of a Phase 2 study in rheumatoid arthritis. AbbVie retains an option to license vobarilizumab based on results of an on-going Phase 2 study in systemic lupus erythematosus. 
      Oncology 
  IMBRUVICA 
             
    In March 2016, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved IMBRUVICA as a first-line treatment for patients with CLL. The approval was based on data from the Phase 3 RESONATE-2 trial, which evaluated efficacy and safety of IMBRUVICA versus traditional chemotherapy, chlorambucil, in treatment-na ve patients with CLL or small lymphocytic leukemia. This is the first FDA-approved chemotherapy-free treatment option for first-line CLL patients. In May 2016, AbbVie announced that the EMA approved IMBRUVICA as a first-line treatment option for adult patients with CLL. IMBRUVICA is now available to treat all lines of CLL in the European Union (EU). This is the fifth treatment indication in the EU for IMBRUVICA. 
                
    In May 2016, AbbVie announced that the FDA updated the IMBRUVICA Prescribing Information to include new data from two Phase 3 trials supporting expanded use in patients with CLL and small lymphocytic lymphoma. The label now includes overall survival results in previously-untreated CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma patients from the Phase 3 RESONATE-2 trial. The IMBRUVICA label has also been updated with safety and efficacy data from the Phase 3 HELIOS trial assessing the use of IMBRUVICA in combination with bendamustine and rituximab versus placebo plus rituximab in relapsed/refractory patients with CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Additionally, the FDA approved a new IMBRUVICA indication to include the treatment of patients with small lymphocytic lymphoma with or without the deletion of chromosome 17p. 

In June 2016, AbbVie announced that the FDA granted IMBRUVICA breakthrough therapy designation for chronic graft-versus-host-disease after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy, a rare condition with limited treatment options. This is the fourth breakthrough therapy designation for IMBRUVICA. 
                
    In January 2017, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved IMBRUVICA for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who require systemic therapy and have received at least one prior anti-CD20-based therapy. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate (ORR) and continued approval may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. MZL is a slow-growing form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This marks the seventh FDA approval and fifth disease indication for IMBRUVICA since the medication's initial approval in 2013.  
       
  Venetoclax 
             
    In April 2016, the FDA granted accelerated approval of Venclexta (venetoclax) tablets for patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with 17p deletion who have received at least one prior therapy. Additionally, in January 2016, the FDA granted two additional breakthrough therapy designations for venetoclax: (i) in combination with rituximab for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory CLL, including patients with chromosome 17p deletion; and (ii) in combination with hypomethylating agents for the treatment of patients with untreated (treatment-na ve) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are ineligible to receive standard induction therapy (high-dose chemotherapy). A Phase 3 clinical trial was recently initiated to study the safety and efficacy of venetoclax in combination with azacitidine in treatment na ve elderly subjects with AML who are ineligible for standard induction therapy. 
                
    In July 2016, AbbVie announced the initiation of a Phase 3 clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of venetoclax in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who are considered sensitive or naive to proteasome inhibitors and have received one to three prior lines of therapy. The combination of venetoclax, bortezomib and dexamethasone will be compared to treatment with bortezomib, dexamethasone and placebo.  
                
    In December 2016, AbbVie announced that the European Commission (EC) has granted conditional marketing authorization for VENCLYXTO (venetoclax) monotherapy for the treatment of CLL in the presence of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation in adult patients who are unsuitable for or have failed a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor; and for the treatment of CLL in the absence of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation in adult patients who have failed both chemoimmunotherapy and a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor. Conditional marketing authorization is granted to medicines that address an unmet medical need, where the benefit of its immediate availability to patients outweighs the risk of limited data availability and where comprehensive data will be provided. VENCLYXTO is a fist-in-class, oral, once-daily medicine that selectively inhibits the function of the BCL-2 protein. VENCLYXTO is being developed by AbbVie and Genentech, a member of the Roche Group. It is jointly commercialized by the companies in the U.S. and by AbbVie outside of the U.S. 
       
  Rova-T 
             
    In June 2016, AbbVie acquired Stemcentrx and its lead late-stage asset Rova-T currently in registrational trials for small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Rova-T is a novel bio-marker-specific therapy that is derived from cancer stem cells and targets delta-like protein 3 (DLL3) that is expressed in more than 80% of SCLC patient tumors and is not present in healthy tissue. Registrational trials for third-line SCLC are expected to complete enrollment by the end of 2016. AbbVie recently began enrollment of a Phase 1 eight-arm "basket study" in neuroendocrine tumors and a Phase 1/2 regimen selection study as a first-line treatment for SCLC. Beyond Rova-T, Stemcentrx has four novel compounds in clinical trials across several solid tumor indications and has additional pre-clinical compounds. 
                
    In July 2016, BMS and AbbVie announced a clinical trial collaboration to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of Rova-T in combination with BMS  Opdivo (nivolumab) and Opdivo + Yervoy (ipilimumab) regimen as a treatment for relapsed extensive stage SCLC. The Phase 1/2 clinical program will explore the potential of combining BMS  immune-oncology agents in conjunction with Rova-T to drive improved and sustained efficacy and tolerability above the current standard of care.  
       
  Other 
             
    In May 2016, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) and AbbVie announced that the EMA approved Empliciti (elotuzumab) for the treatment of multiple myeloma as combination therapy with Revlimid  (lenalidomide) and dexamethasone in adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. Empliciti is now the first and only immunostimulatory antibody approved for multiple myeloma in the EU. 

In June 2016, AbbVie exercised its right to end its global collaboration with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Infinity), which it entered into in September 2014 to develop and commercialize duvelisib (IPI-145) for the treatment of patients with cancer. Pursuant to the terms of the global collaboration agreement, the worldwide rights to duvelisib reverted to Infinity. 
     Virology/Liver Disease 
             
    In February 2016, AbbVie announced that CHMP granted a positive opinion for the use of VIEKIRA (ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir tablets) + EXVIERA (dasabuvir tablets) without ribavirin (RBV) in chronic HCV infected genotype 1b (GT1b) patients with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). In April 2016, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved VIEKIRA PAK (ombitasvir, paritaprevir, ritonavir tablets; dasabuvir tablets) without RBV in patients with GT1b chronic HCV infection and compensated cirrhosis. In July 2016, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved a New Drug Application (NDA) for VIEKIRA XR (dasabuvir, ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir) extended-release tablets. VIEKIRA XR is a once-daily, extended-release co-formulation of the active ingredients in VIEKIRA PAK (ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir tablets; dasabuvir tablets) and is for the treatment of patients with chronic genotype 1 (GT1) HCV, including those with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). 
                
    In October 2016, AbbVie announced that the FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation for the investigational, pan-genotypic regimen of glecaprevir (ABT-493)/pibrentasvir (ABT-530) for the treatment of patients with HCV who failed previous therapy with direct-acting antivirals in genotype 1, including therapy with an NS5A inhibitor and/or protease inhibitor.  
                
    In January 2017, AbbVie announced that its marketing authorization application (MAA) has been validated and is now under accelerated assessment by the EMA for the company's investigational, pan-genotypic regimen of G/P for the treatment of all major chronic HCV genotypes. G/P is also intended to address the needs of patients with specific treatment challenges, including those with severe chronic kidney disease (CKD) and those not cured with previous direct-acting antiviral (DAA) treatment. In February 2017, AbbVie announced that the FDA accepted its New Drug Application (NDA) and granted priority review for the company's investigational, pan-genotypic regimen of G/P for the treatment of all major chronic HCV genotypes. 
     Neurology 
             
    In May 2016, Biogen and AbbVie announced that the FDA approved ZINBRYTA (daclizumab) for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS). ZINBRYTA is a once-monthly, self-administered, subcutaneous injection. Biogen and AbbVie will co-promote ZINBRYTA in the United States. In July 2016, Biogen and AbbVie announced that the EMA granted a marketing authorization for ZINBRYTA for the treatment of adult patients with RMS. ZINBRYTA launched in the third quarter of 2016. 
     Other 
             
    In January 2016, AbbVie announced the initiation of the first of two planned Phase 3 studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of Elagolix in the treatment of patients with uterine fibroids. AbbVie made a milestone payment of $15 million to Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc., AbbVie s collaboration partner, upon enrollment of the first patient. Elagolix is also in Phase 3 development for endometriosis.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Net Revenues 
  The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency net revenues at the prior year's foreign exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current periods. AbbVie believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net revenues at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net revenues at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. 

The following table details AbbVie's worldwide net revenues: 

n/a Not applicable. 

The following discussion and analysis of AbbVie's net revenues by product is presented on a constant currency basis. 
  Global HUMIRA sales increased 16% in   2016   and 19% in   2015  . The sales increase in   2016   was driven by market growth across therapeutic categories and geographies, favorable pricing in certain geographies and approval of new indications. The sales increase in   2015   was primarily as a result of market growth across therapeutic categories and geographies, higher market share, approval of new indications and favorable pricing in certain geographies. In the United States, HUMIRA revenues increased 24% in   2016   and 29% in   2015  , driven by prescription volume, favorable pricing, market growth across all indications and higher market share. Internationally, HUMIRA revenues increased 4% in   2016   and 9% in   2015  , driven primarily by growth across indications. AbbVie continues to pursue strategies to help further differentiate HUMIRA from competing products and add to the sustainability and future growth of HUMIRA. 
  Net revenues for IMBRUVICA represent product revenues in the United States and collaboration revenues outside of the United States related to AbbVie's 50% share of IMBRUVICA profit. Net revenues for IMBRUVICA commenced following the completion of the Pharmacyclics acquisition on May 26, 2015. Global IMBRUVICA sales increased more than 100% in   2016   as a result of market share gains following the FDA and EMA approval of IMBRUVICA as a first-line treatment for patients with CLL as well as having a full year of sales in 2016.  
  Global VIEKIRA sales decreased 6% in   2016  , as a result of lower market share, primarily in the United States, market contraction and price erosion. In the United States, sales decreased 57% in   2016  , primarily due to lower market share resulting from a new market entrant in the first quarter of 2016 and contraction of the overall market. International revenues in   2016   reflected sales in additional geographies where the product was approved subsequent to December 31, 2015. VIEKIRA was launched in   2015  , revenues increased during 2015 as the product was approved in additional geographies.  
  Synagis is a seasonal product with the majority of sales occurring in the first and fourth quarters. Net revenues remained constant in   2016   and increased 1% in   2015  .  
  Net revenues for Creon increased 15% in   2016   and 22% in   2015  , driven primarily by continued market growth and higher market share. Creon maintains market leadership in the pancreatic enzyme market. 
  Global Kaletra net revenues decreased 17% in   2016   and 10% in   2015  , primarily due to lower market share resulting from the impact of increasing competition in the HIV marketplace. AbbVie expects net revenues for Kaletra to continue to decline in 2017.  
  Net revenues for Duodopa increased 28% in   2016   and 23% in   2015  , primarily as a result of market penetration and geographic expansion. Duopa was approved in the United States in January 2015. AbbVie expects net revenues for Duopa in the United States will continue to gradually increase during 2017 as the product gains acceptance in the marketplace. 
  Gross Margin 

Gross margin as a percentage of net revenues decreased in   2016   due to the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates, higher intangible asset amortization and the unfavorable impact related to the Pharmacyclics acquisition, including the profit sharing arrangement and the amortization of the fair market value step-up of acquisition-date inventory. These reductions were partially offset by the favorable impact of product mix across the portfolio and manufacturing efficiencies. Additionally, 2016 included a $39 million charge related to the impairment of an intangible asset in the first quarter of 2016.  
   The gross margin for   2015   and   2014   reflected the favorable impact of product mix across the product portfolio, including HUMIRA, operational efficiencies and price increases, partially offset by the effect of unfavorable foreign exchange rates and the loss of exclusivity for the lipid franchise. Gross margin in   2015   also included milestone revenue of $40 million from a collaboration partner related the company's oncology program. Additionally, gross margin in   2014   included royalty income of $81 million relating to prior periods as a result of the settlement of a licensing arrangement and lower amortization expense for intangible assets, partially offset by a $37 million impairment charge for an intangible asset. 

Selling, General and Administrative 

SG A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased in   2016   due to continued leverage from revenue growth and lower costs in 2016.   2015   SG A expenses included costs associated with the separation from Abbott of $265 million, Pharmacyclics acquisition and integration costs of $294 million and litigation charges of $165 million. Additionally, SG A expense in 2015 reflected marketing support for the global launch of VIEKIRA.  
  SG A expenses declined in   2015   compared to   2014  , principally due to the absence of transaction-related costs totaling $1.7 billion incurred in 2014 in connection with the termination of the proposed combination with Shire, partially offset by the 2015 items discussed above. SG A expenses in 2014 also included a $129 million charge related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee due to the issuance of final rules which resulted in an additional year of expense in 2014.  
  Research and Development and Acquired In-Process Research and Development 

Research and Development     (R D) expenses in   2016   increased compared to   2015   principally due to increased funding to support the company s emerging mid- and late-stage pipeline assets. These increases were partially offset by the following factors: (i) 2015 R D expenses included a $350 million charge related to the purchase of a priority review voucher from a third party; (ii) development milestones decreased in 2016 to $80 million compared to $133 million in 2015; and (iii)   2015   results included restructuring charges of $32 million. Acquisition costs decreased in   2016   to $140 million compared to $152 million in   2015  . In addition to the 2015 factors discussed above, R D expense in   2014   included regulatory milestone payments of $40 million made to a collaboration partner for regulatory milestones related to the company's HCV program. 
  Acquired IPR D expense in   2016   included charges of $200 million as a result of entering into various collaboration agreements. R D expense in   2015   included a charge of $100 million as a result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C   2   N to develop and commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. Acquired IPR D expense in   2014   included a charge of $275 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Infinity to develop and commercialize duvelisib, a treatment for patients with cancer. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the C   2   N and Infinity agreements. 
  Other Operating Expenses 
  Other operating expenses in 2014 included a $750 million charge related to an R D collaboration agreement entered into in September 2014 with Calico to discover, develop and commercialize new therapies for patients with age-related diseases. 

Other Non-Operating Expenses 

Interest expense in   2016   increased due to the May 2015 issuance of $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which were issued primarily to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and the May 2016 issuance of $7.8 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which were issued primarily to finance the acquisition of Stemcentrx and to repay an outstanding term loan. Additionally, interest expense in   2016   included a debt extinguishment charge of $39 million related to the 1.75% senior notes redemption. These increases were partially offset by the absence of bridge financing-related costs of $86 million in   2015   incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Interest income in   2016   increased due to growth in the company s investment securities. Interest expense, net in   2015   increased due to the May 2015 issuance of $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. Interest expense, net in   2014   included $141 million of financing related fees incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with Shire.  
  Net foreign exchange loss in   2016   included losses totaling $298 million related to the devaluation of AbbVie s net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Venezuelan devaluation. Net foreign exchange loss in   2015   included losses of $170 million to complete the liquidation of the company s remaining foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire. In   2014  , AbbVie entered into certain undesignated forward contracts to hedge the then anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the then proposed combination with Shire. Net foreign exchange loss in   2014   included losses of $666 million associated with the Shire-related forward contracts. 
  Other expense, net in   2016   included a charge of $228 million related to the change in fair value of the BI and Stemcentrx contingent consideration liabilities. The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is impacted by the passage of time and multiple other inputs, including the probability of success of achieving regulatory/commercial milestones, discount rates and other market-based factors. In 2016, the change in fair value represented mainly the passage of time, as increases to the BI contingent consideration liability due to higher probabilities of success were fully offset by the effects of rising interest rates and changes in other market-based assumptions. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the acquisitions of Stemcentrx and BI compounds. Other expense, net for   2015   included impairment charges totaling $36 million related to certain of the company's equity investment securities. Other expense, net in   2014   primarily consisted of income of $34 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement. 
  Income Tax Expense 
  The effective income tax rate was 24% in   2016  , 23% in   2015   and 25% in   2014  . The effective tax rate in each period differed from the statutory tax rate principally due to the benefit from foreign operations which reflects the impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, tax exemptions and incentives in Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, business development activities and the cost of repatriation decisions. The increase in the effective tax rate for   2016   over the prior year was principally due to changes in the jurisdictional mix of earnings, as well as certain discrete factors and events, including acquisitions and collaborations. The effective tax rate in 2016 included additional expense of $187 million related to the recognition of the tax effect of regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service on December 7, 2016 that changed the determination of the U.S. taxability of foreign currency gains and losses related to certain foreign operations.  The effective income tax rate in   2015   included a tax benefit of $103 million from a reduction of state valuation allowances. The effective income tax rate in   2014   included state valuation allowances of $129 million and additional expenses of $129 million related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, which is non-deductible. 

FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash flows provided by operations in   2016   was $7.0 billion compared to $7.5 billion in   2015  . Operating cash flows in   2016   reflected improved results of operations resulting from revenue growth and an improvement in operating margin, offset by income tax payments. Cash provided by operating activities also reflected AbbVie's voluntary contributions, primarily to its domestic defined benefit plans of   $150 million   in   2016  , $150 million in   2015   and $370 million in   2014  . AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of   $150 million   to this plan subsequent to December 31,   2016  . AbbVie paid $350 million to purchase a priority review voucher from a third party in 2015. Cash flows provided by operations in   2015   was $7.5 billion compared to $3.5 billion in   2014  . The increase was primarily due to improved results of operations due to revenue growth and an improvement in operating margin as well as the absence of after-tax transaction and financing-related and other costs of $1.8 billion incurred in connection with the termination of the proposed combination with Shire, including net foreign exchange losses related to the settlement of undesignated forward contracts used to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows and the exit of certain foreign currency positions. Realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation totaled $55 million in   2016  , $61 million in   2015   and $56 million in   2014   and were presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as an outflow within the operating section and an inflow within the financing section. 
  Investing cash flows in   2016   primarily included $1.9 billion cash consideration paid to acquire Stemcentrx in June 2016, $595 million upfront payment to acquire certain rights from BI in April 2016 and net purchases of investment securities totaling $3.0 billion. Investing activities in 2015 primarily included the $11.5 billion cash consideration paid to acquire Pharmacyclics in May 2015 (net of cash acquired of $877 million). Investing activities in   2015   also included cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments of $964 million, including a $500 million payment to Calico, $100 million related to an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C   2   N to develop and commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders and $130 million paid to Infinity due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration agreement. Investing activities in   2014   included cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaling $622 million, including $275 million paid to Infinity and $250 million paid to Calico. Cash flows from investing activities in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   also reflected capital expenditures. AbbVie incurred additional expenditures in 2014 to purchase a manufacturing facility and in 2015 to build a new biologics facility on that site.  
  In   2016   and   2015  , the company issued and redeemed commercial paper. The balance of commercial paper outstanding was $377 million as of December 31,   2016   and $400 million as of December 31,   2015  . AbbVie may issue additional commercial paper or retire commercial paper to meet liquidity requirements as needed. In November 2016, the company issued    3.6 billion   aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes. The company used the proceeds to redeem $4.0 billion aggregate principal amount of   1.75%   senior notes due to mature in November 2017. In connection with the offering, AbbVie incurred $17 million of issuance costs. In May 2016, the company issued $7.8 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. Approximately $2.0 billion of the net proceeds were used to repay an outstanding term loan that was due to mature in November 2016, approximately $1.9 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of Stemcentrx and approximately $3.8 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance an ASR. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the ASR transactions. In connection with the May 2016 issuance of senior notes, AbbVie incurred $52 million of issuance costs. 
  In May 2015, the company issued $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. Approximately $11.5 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and $5.0 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance an ASR. In   2015   the company paid $86 million of costs relating to an $18.0 billion, 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement (the bridge loan) as well as $93 million of costs relating to the May 2015 issuance of senior notes. No amounts were drawn under the bridge loan, which was terminated as a result of the issuance of the senior notes. In September 2015, AbbVie entered into a three-year $2.0 billion term loan credit facility and a 364-day $2.0 billion term loan credit facility. In November 2015, AbbVie drew on these term facilities and used the proceeds to refinance its $4.0 billion of senior notes that matured in 2015.  
  Cash dividend payments totaled $3.7 billion in   2016   and $3.3 billion in   2015  . The increase in cash dividend payments was primarily due to an increase in the dividend rate. On October 28, 2016, AbbVie announced that its board of directors declared an increase in the company's quarterly cash dividend from $0.57 per share to $0.64 per share beginning with the  

dividend payable on February 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of January 13, 2017. This reflects an increase of approximately 12% over the previous quarterly rate. The timing, declaration, amount of and payment of any dividends is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. 
  In addition to the ASRs, the company repurchased approximately 34 million shares for $2.1 billion in the open market in   2016   and approximately 46 million shares for $2.8 billion in the open market in   2015  . Purchases of AbbVie shares under this program may be made from time to time at management's discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization was $36 million as of December 31, 2016. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the ASR. On February 16, 2017, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to AbbVie's existing stock repurchase program. The stock repurchase authorization permits shares to be repurchased in open market or private transactions, has no time limit and may be discontinued at any time. 
  Cash and equivalents were also negatively impacted by net unfavorable exchange rate changes totaling $338 million in   2016   and $300 million in   2015  . The unfavorable exchange rate changes in 2016 were primarily due to the devaluation of AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar. The unfavorable exchange rate changes in 2015 were principally due to the weakening of the Euro and other foreign currencies on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets and cash denominated in foreign currencies. While a significant portion of cash and equivalents at December 31,   2016   are considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, AbbVie does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the United States, AbbVie would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. AbbVie believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at December 31,   2016   has been reinvested indefinitely. 
  Credit Risk 
  AbbVie monitors economic conditions, the creditworthiness of customers and government regulations and funding, both domestically and abroad. AbbVie regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the validity of the receivables. AbbVie establishes an allowance against accounts receivable when it is probable they will not be collected. AbbVie also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring arrangements to mitigate credit risk although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not been a significant amount of total outstanding receivables. 
  AbbVie continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain, that have historically experienced challenges in credit and economic conditions. Substantially all of AbbVie's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain are with government health systems. Outstanding net governmental receivables in these countries totaled $244 million as of December 31,   2016   and $525 million at December 31,   2015  . The company also continues to do business with foreign governments in certain oil-exporting countries, which have recently experienced a deterioration in economic conditions, including Saudi Arabia and Russia. Outstanding net governmental receivables were $122 million related to Saudi Arabia and $110 million related to Russia as of December 31,   2016  . Due to oil market conditions in recent years, liquidity issues in certain countries may result in delays in the collection of receivables. Global economic conditions and customer-specific factors may require the company to periodically re-evaluate the collectability of its receivables and the company could potentially incur credit losses. 
  Currently, AbbVie does not believe the economic conditions in oil-exporting countries will have a significant impact on the company's liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility. However, if government funding were to become unavailable in these countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, AbbVie may not be able to collect the entire balance outstanding as of December 31,   2016  . 

Credit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings 
  Credit Facility 
  AbbVie currently has a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2019. The revolving credit facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2016, the company was in compliance with all its credit facility covenants. Commitment fees under the credit facility were insignificant. There were no amounts outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  . 
  Access to Capital 
  The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations, or by issuing additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt, or enter into financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company's key financial ratios or credit ratings, or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions. At the current time, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company's growth objectives. 
  Credit Ratings 
  On April 28, 2016, following the announcement of the proposed acquisition of Stemcentrx, S P Global Ratings (S P) lowered AbbVie s corporate credit rating and senior unsecured debt rating to  A-  from  A . AbbVie s  A-1  short-term rating remained unchanged. S P revised its ratings outlook to  stable  from  negative . On June 1, 2016, Moody s Investor Service downgraded AbbVie s senior unsecured long-term rating to Baa2 from Baa1 and affirmed AbbVie s Prime-2 short-term rating. There were no additional changes in the company s credit ratings in 2016. 
  Unfavorable changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements; however, they would not affect the company's ability to draw on its credit facility and would not result in an acceleration of scheduled maturities of any of the company's outstanding debt. 
  Contractual Obligations 
  The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31,   2016  : 

(a) 
    Includes estimated future interest payments on long-term debt securities and capital lease obligations. Interest payments on debt are calculated for future periods using forecasted interest rates in effect at the end of 2016. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at   December 31, 2016  . See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's debt instruments and Note 10 for additional information on the interest rate agreements outstanding at   December 31, 2016  .  
              (b) 
    Includes the company's significant unconditional purchase obligations. These commitments do not exceed the company's projected requirements and are made in the normal course of business. 

(c) 
    Amounts less than one year includes a voluntary contribution of $150 million AbbVie made to its main domestic defined benefit plan subsequent to December 31,   2016  . Amounts otherwise exclude pension and other post-employment benefits and related deferred compensation cash outflows. Timing of funding is uncertain and dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations and other variables. Also included in this amount are components of other long-term liabilities including restructuring. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on restructuring and Note 11 for additional information on the pension plan.  
              (d) 
    Excludes liabilities associated with the company's unrecognized tax benefits as it is not possible to reliably estimate the timing of the future cash outflows related to these liabilities. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these unrecognized tax benefits. 
              (e) 
    Includes $4.2 billion of contingent consideration liabilities related to the acquisitions of Stemcentrx and BI compounds which are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. Potential contingent consideration payments that exceed the fair value recorded on the consolidated balance sheet are not included in the table of contractual obligations. See Notes 5 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these liabilities. 
     AbbVie enters into R D collaboration arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory, or commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are insignificant in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense could be material to the results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from product sales. It is not possible to predict with reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. As a result, these potential payments are not included in the table of contractual obligations. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these collaboration arrangements. 
  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
  The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of the company's significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these policies are considered critical as these most significantly impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may vary from these estimates. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. 
  Rebates 
  AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare drug plans, wholesalers, group purchasing organizations and other government agencies and private entities. 
  Rebate and chargeback accruals are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the period the related product is sold. Rebates and chargebacks totaled $10.8 billion in   2016  , $8.6 billion in   2015   and $5.9 billion in   2014  . Rebate amounts are typically based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant. 
  In order to establish its rebate and chargeback accruals, the company uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time for each type of rebate. To estimate the rebate percentage or net price, the company tracks sales by product and by customer or payer. The company evaluates inventory data reported by wholesalers, available prescription volume information, product pricing, historical experience and other factors in order to determine the adequacy of its reserves. AbbVie regularly monitors its reserves and  

records adjustments when rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events indicate that a change in the reserve is appropriate. Historically, adjustments to rebate accruals have not been material to net earnings. 
  The following table is an analysis of the three largest rebate accruals and chargeback allowances, which comprise approximately 90% of the total consolidated rebate and chargebacks recorded as reductions to revenues in   2016  . Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross revenues are not significant in the determination of operating earnings. 

Cash Discounts and Product Returns 
  Allowances for cash discounts and product returns, which totaled $964 million in   2016  , $898 million in   2015   and $610 million in   2014  , are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period the related product is sold. The reserve for cash discounts is readily determinable because the company's experience of payment history is fairly consistent. Product returns can be reliably estimated based on the company's historical return experience. 
  Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits 
  AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under the plans that are direct obligations of AbbVie. The valuation of the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost for these plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. The significant assumptions, which are reviewed annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the health care cost trend rates. The significant assumptions used in determining these calculations are disclosed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 

The discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. AbbVie employs a yield-curve approach for countries where a robust bond market exists. The yield curve is developed using high-quality bonds. The yield curve approach reflects the plans' specific cash flows (i.e. duration) in calculating the benefit obligations by applying the corresponding individual spot rates along the yield curve. Beginning in 2016, AbbVie also reflected the plans' specific cash flows and applied them to the corresponding individual spot rates along the yield curve in calculating the service cost and interest cost portions of expense. For other countries, AbbVie reviews various indices such as corporate bond and government bond benchmarks to estimate the discount rate. AbbVie's assumed discount rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans as of December 31,   2016  . A 50 basis point change in the assumed discount rate would have had the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs in   2017   and projected benefit obligations as of December 31,   2016  : 
                               
    50 basis point 
      (in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) 
    Increase 
      
    Decrease 
      Defined benefit plans 

Service and interest cost 
    $ 
    (50 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    54 
      
      Projected benefit obligation 
    (452 
    ) 
      
    511 
      
      Other post-employment plans 

Service and interest cost 
    $ 
    (6 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    7 
      
      Projected benefit obligation 
    (51 
    ) 
      
    58 

Effective December 31, 2015, AbbVie elected to change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs. Historically, AbbVie estimated these service and interest cost components of this expense utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. In late 2015, AbbVie elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. AbbVie elected to make this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows to the corresponding spot yield curve rates. AbbVie has accounted for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle. This change reduced AbbVie s net periodic benefit cost by approximately $41 million in 2016. This change had no effect on the 2015 expense and will not affect the measurement of AbbVie s total benefit obligations.  
  The expected long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance and the current view of expected future returns. AbbVie considers these inputs with a long-term focus to avoid short-term market influences. The current long-term rate of return on plan assets is supported by the historical performance of the trust's actual and target asset allocation. AbbVie's assumed expected long-term rate of return has a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension plans as of December 31,   2016   and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in   2017  . A one percentage point change in assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would increase or decrease the net period benefit cost of these plans in   2017   by $49 million. 
  The health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The current health care cost trend rate is supported by the historical trend experience of the plan. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans as of December 31,   2016   and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in   2017  . A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs in   2017   and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31,   2016  : 
                               
    One percentage 
   point 
      (in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) 
    Increase 
      
    Decrease 
      Service and interest cost 
    $ 
    21 

$ 
    (17 
    ) 
      Projected benefit obligation 
    120 

(95 
    ) 

Income Taxes 
  AbbVie accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the differences between the financial statement  

carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. 
  Litigation 
  The company is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property, commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss and therefore, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. 
  Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie records at fair value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the pharmaceuticals industry and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. IPR D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time it is accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized over its estimated useful life, or discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. IPR D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately, unless deemed to have an alternative future use. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life. 
  AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to IPR D, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event occurs that could result in an impairment. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 
  Annually, the company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macro-economic conditions, conditions specific to the industry and market, cost factors, which could have a significant effect on earnings or cash flows, the overall financial performance and whether there have been sustained declines in the company's share price. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets using a quantitative impairment test. 
  For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates. 
  Contingent     Consideration 
  The fair value measurements of contingent consideration liabilities are determined as of the acquisition date based on significant unobservable inputs, including the discount rate, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones and the estimated amount of future sales of the acquired products still in development. Changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes to one or a number of inputs, including discount rates, the probabilities of achieving the milestones, the time required to achieve the milestones and estimated future sales. Contingent consideration liabilities are revalued to fair value at each subsequent reporting date until the related contingency is resolved. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these inputs. Changes to the inputs described above could have a material impact on the company's financial position and results of operations in any given period. At December 31,   2016  , a 50 basis point increase/decrease in the assumed discount  

rate would have decreased/increased the value of the contingent consideration liabilities by approximately   $180 million  . Additionally, at December 31,   2016  , a five percentage point increase/decrease in the assumed probability of success across all potential indications would have increased/decreased the value of the contingent consideration liabilities by approximately   $360 million  .  
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on recent accounting pronouncements. 
   
  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies. 
  Foreign Currency Risk 
  AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen and British pound. The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at December 31,   2016   and   2015  : 

The company estimates that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $854 million at December 31,   2016  . If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts, which would be offset by gains on the underlying hedged items. A 10% appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. 
  In November 2016, the company issued  3.6 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes, which are exposed to foreign currency risk. The company has designated these foreign currency denominated notes as hedges of its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. As a result, any foreign currency translation gains or losses related to the Euro notes will be included in accumulated other comprehensive income. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the senior Euro note issuance and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the net investment hedging program.  
  The functional currency of the company s Venezuela operations is the U.S. dollar due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. At December 31, 2015, there were three legal exchange mechanisms administered by the Venezuelan government. These were the official rate of 6.3 Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) per U.S. dollar, the Supplementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency (SICAD) rate of approximately 13.5 VEF per U.S. dollar and the Foreign Exchange Marginal System (SIMADI) rate of approximately 200. Effective March 10, 2016, the Venezuelan government devalued the official rate of 6.3 to 10 VEF per U.S. dollar, eliminated the SICAD rate and replaced SIMADI with a new exchange mechanism, Divisa Complementaria (DICOM). As of December 31,   2016  , the DICOM rate was approximately 673 VEF per U.S. dollar.  

During the first quarter of 2016, in consideration of declining economic conditions in Venezuela and a decline in transactions settled at the official rate, AbbVie determined that its net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar were no longer expected to be settled at the official rate of 10 VEF per U.S. dollar, but rather at the DICOM rate. Therefore, during the first quarter of 2016, AbbVie recorded a charge of $298 million to net foreign exchange loss to revalue its bolivar-denominated net monetary assets using the DICOM rate then in effect of approximately 270 VEF per U.S. dollar. As of December 31,   2016  , AbbVie s net monetary assets in Venezuela were insignificant.  
  Interest Rate Risk 
  The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would adversely impact the fair value of AbbVie's interest rate swap contracts by approximately $649 million at December 31,   2016  . If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The company estimates that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $2.3 billion at December 31,   2016  . A 100 basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest rates.  
  Market Price Risk 
  AbbVie s debt securities investment portfolio (the portfolio) is its main exposure to market price risk. The portfolio is subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. It is AbbVie s policy to mitigate market price risk by maintaining a diversified portfolio that limits the amount of exposure to a particular issuer and security type while placing limits on the amount of time to maturity. AbbVie s investment policy limits investments to investment grade credit ratings. The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would decrease the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $33 million as of December 31,   2016  . If the portfolio were to be liquidated, the fair value reduction would affect the income statement in the period sold.  
    
  AbbVie also holds equity securities in other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are traded on public stock exchanges. A hypothetical 20% decrease in the share prices of these investments would decrease the fair value of these investments by $15 million as of December 31,   2016  . A 20% decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.  
  Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities 
  AbbVie holds equity securities in other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value of these investments was $42 million as of December 31,   2016   and $33 million as of December 31,   2015  . AbbVie monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in market value and charges impairment losses to net earnings when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs. In   2016  , impairment charges recorded were insignificant. In   2015  , AbbVie recorded impairment charges totaling $36 million related to certain of the company's investments in non-publicly traded equity securities. 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Page 
      Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
       Consolidated Statements of Earnings  
    48 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    49 
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    50 
       Consolidated Statements of Equity  
    51 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    52 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    53 
       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    94 

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Equity 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

(a) 
    Cash flows from operating activities included the impact of transaction and financing-related and other costs incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with Shire plc. See Note 5 for additional information.  
          The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
   
  Note 1 Background and Basis of Presentation 

Background 
  The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of pharmaceutical products. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to   three   wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold primarily to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. 
  AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of   100%   of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie incurred separation-related expenses of   $270 million   in 2015 and   $445 million   in 2014, which were principally classified in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A) in the consolidated statements of earnings. These charges principally related to information technology, legal and regulatory fees. 
    
  Basis of Historical Presentation 
    
  For a certain portion of AbbVie s operations, the legal transfer of AbbVie s assets (net of liabilities) did not occur with the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013 due to the time required to transfer marketing authorizations and satisfy other regulatory requirements in certain countries. Under the terms of the separation agreement with Abbott, AbbVie was responsible for the business activities conducted by Abbott on its behalf and was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these operations and assets. As a result, the related assets and liabilities and results of operations have been reported in AbbVie s consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . Net revenues related to these operations were   insignificant   in   2016  ,   $213 million   in   2015   and   $282 million   in   2014  . All of these operations have been transferred to AbbVie as of December 31,   2016  .  
   
  Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Use of Estimates 
  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for rebates, pension and post-employment benefits, income taxes, litigation, valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, contingent consideration liabilities, financial instruments and inventory and accounts receivable exposures. 
  Basis of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31,   2016   and   2015   include the accounts of AbbVie and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, where AbbVie is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Investments in companies over which AbbVie has a significant influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method with AbbVie's share of earnings or losses reported in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. All other investments are generally accounted for using the cost method. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. 
  Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period consolidated financial statements to the current period presentation. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. Provisions for discounts, rebates, sales incentives to customers, returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related revenues are recorded. Rebate amounts are typically  

based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant. Sales incentives to customers are insignificant. Historical data is readily available and reliable and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross revenues. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights. 
  Research and Development Expenses 
  Internal research and development (R D) costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development collaborations for pre-commercialization milestones, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the related product. 
  Collaborations and Other Arrangements 
  The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities may include joint research and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these arrangements. These collaborations often require upfront payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing, royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development and commercialization. Upfront payments associated with collaborative arrangements during the development stage are expensed to acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Subsequent payments made to the partner for the achievement of milestones during the development stage are expensed to R D expense in the consolidated statements of earnings when the milestone is achieved. Milestone payments made to the partner subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Royalties are expensed to cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings when incurred. 
  Advertising 
  Costs associated with advertising are expensed as incurred and are included in SG A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Advertising expenses were   $764 million   in   2016  ,   $704 million   in   2015   and   $665 million   in   2014  . 
  Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits 
  AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans based on calculations which utilize various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, rates of return on assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. AbbVie reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends. Actuarial gains and losses are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCI), net of tax and are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized to net periodic benefit cost over a   five  -year period. 
  Income Taxes 
  Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are calculated on reported pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when, based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. 
  Cash and Equivalents 
  Cash and equivalents include money market funds and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. 
  Investments 
  Investments consist primarily of time deposits, marketable debt securities, held-to-maturity debt securities and equity securities. Investments in marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any  

unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in AOCI on the consolidated balance sheets. Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges and held-to-maturity debt securities are recorded at cost. 
  AbbVie periodically assesses its investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment losses. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, including the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been below the cost basis and adverse conditions related specifically to the security, including any changes to the credit rating of the security, intent to sell, or whether AbbVie will more likely than not be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. AbbVie also considers industry factors and general market trends. When AbbVie determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, a cost basis investment is written down with a charge to other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings and an available-for-sale investment's unrealized loss is reclassified from AOCI to other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are computed using the first-in, first-out method adjusted for any other-than-temporary declines in fair value that were recorded in net earnings. 
  Accounts Receivable 
  Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available information. Accounts receivable are written off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where appropriate) have been exhausted. The allowance was   $72 million   at December 31,   2016   and   $78 million   at December 31,   2015  . 
  Inventories 
  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs. Inventories consisted of the following: 

Property and Equipment 

Depreciation for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life for buildings ranges from   10   to   50   years. Buildings include leasehold improvements which are amortized over the life of the related facility lease (including any renewal periods, if appropriate) or the asset, whichever is shorter. The estimated useful life for equipment ranges from   3   to   20   years. Equipment includes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use and is amortized over   3   to   10   years. Depreciation expense was   $425 million   in   2016  ,   $417 million   in   2015   and   $383 million   in   2014  . Assets related to capital leases were insignificant at December 31,   2016   and   2015  . 
  Litigation and Contingencies 
  Loss contingency provisions are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. When a best estimate cannot be made, the minimum loss contingency amount in a probable range is recorded. Legal fees are expensed as incurred. AbbVie accrues for product liability  

claims, on an undiscounted basis. The liabilities are evaluated quarterly and adjusted if necessary as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries, if any, for product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. 
  Business Combinations 
  AbbVie utilizes the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. This method requires, among other things, that r  esults of operations of acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations beginning on the respective acquisition dates and     that assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date.     Any excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration liabilities are recognized at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities are recognized in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value during a period of time generally not to exceed twelve months from the acquisition date. Legal costs, due diligence costs, business valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred. 
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values of market participants. Definite-lived intangibles are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. AbbVie first compares the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. 
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized, but are subject to an impairment review annually and more frequently when indicators of impairment exist. An impairment of goodwill could occur if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit. An impairment of Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of capitalized IPR D, would occur if the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset is less than the carrying amount. 
  The company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount. If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets using a quantitative impairment test. For its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, future foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates. 
  Acquired In-Process Research and Development 
  In an asset acquisition, the initial costs of rights to IPR D projects acquired are expensed as IPR D in the consolidated statements of earnings unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development collaboration agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. In a business combination, the fair value of IPR D projects acquired are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until the underlying project receives regulatory approval, at which point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived intangible asset, or discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. R D costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred.  
    
  Foreign Currency Translation 
  Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are  

remeasured as if the functional currency were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings.  
  Derivatives 
  All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets and are classified as current or long-term based on the scheduled maturity of the instrument.  
  For derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge and of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings immediately. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are subsequently recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item. If it is determined that a derivative is no longer highly effective as a hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. If a hedged forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring, any gains or losses are reclassified from AOCI to earnings. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings. 
  The company also uses derivative instruments or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from these hedges are included in AOCI.  
  Derivative cash flows, with the exception of net investment hedges, are principally classified in the operating section of the consolidated statements of cash flows, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flows related to net investment hedges are classified in the investing section of the consolidated statements of cash flows. 
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-9,   Summary and Amendments That Create Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs Contracts with Customers (Subtopic 340-40)  . The amendments in this standard supersede most current revenue recognition requirements. The core principle of the new guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. AbbVie can apply the amendments using one of the following two methods: (i) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or (ii) modified retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments recognized at the date of initial application. This standard will be effective for AbbVie starting with the first quarter of 2018. Early application is permitted only for annual reporting periods beginning starting with the first quarter of 2017. AbbVie will adopt the standard effective the first quarter of 2018 and apply the amendments using the modified retrospective method. AbbVie's revenues are primarily comprised of product sales. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,   Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  . The standard requires several targeted changes including that equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net earnings. These provisions will not impact the accounting for AbbVie's investments in debt securities. The new guidance also changes certain disclosure requirements and other aspects of current U.S. GAAP. Amendments are to be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. This standard will be effective for AbbVie starting with the first quarter of 2018. The standard does not permit early adoption with the exception of certain targeted provisions. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,   Leases (Topic 842)  . ASU 2016-02 outlines a comprehensive lease accounting model and supersedes the current lease guidance. The new standard requires lessees to recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets for all leases with lease terms greater than 12 months. It also changes the definition of a lease and expands the disclosure requirements of lease arrangements. The new standard must be adopted using the modified retrospective approach and will be effective for AbbVie starting with the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption is permitted. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,   Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting  . Under the new guidance, excess tax benefits associated with share-based awards will be recognized in the statement of earnings when the awards vest or settle, rather than in stockholders  equity. The standard also permits entities to make a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur and clarifies the statement of cash flows presentation for certain components of share-based awards. AbbVie will adopt the standard effective the first quarter of 2017 with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. AbbVie cannot predict the  

impact of adopting this standard as it will be dependent upon several unknown factors including when employees exercise stock options and the company's stock price at settlement date. However, based on historical trends, AbbVie does not believe the adoption will have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. 
  In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13,   Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326)  . The standard changes how credit losses are measured for most financial assets and certain other instruments. For trade and other receivables, held-to-maturity debt securities, loans and other instruments, the standard requires the use of a new forward-looking "expected credit loss" model that generally will result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. For available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, the standard now requires allowances to be recorded instead of reducing the amortized cost of the investment. The standard additionally requires new disclosures and will be effective for AbbVie starting with the first quarter of 2020. Early adoption beginning in the first quarter of 2019 is permitted. With certain exceptions, adjustments are to be applied using a modified-retrospective approach by reflecting adjustments through a cumulative-effect impact to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16,   Income Taxes (Topic 740)  . The new standard requires entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intercompany transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Under current U.S. GAAP, the income tax consequences of these intercompany asset transfers are deferred until the asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. The standard will be effective for AbbVie starting with the first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period. Adjustments for this update are to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2016, AbbVie had approximately   $1.9 billion   of prepaid income tax assets that will be affected by this standard, of which   $1.4 billion   was included in prepaid expenses and other on the consolidated balance sheet.  
    
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01,   Business Combinations (Topic 805):     Clarifying the Definition of a Business  . The standard provides clarifying guidance to assist in the evaluation of whether transactions are treated as business combinations or asset acquisitions. AbbVie will early adopt the standard starting with the first quarter of 2017. The ASU will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring after adoption  . 

Note 3 Supplemental Financial Information 

Interest Expense, Net 

Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities 

Other Long-Term Liabilities 

Note 4 Earnings Per Share 

AbbVie grants certain shares of restricted stock awards (RSAs) and restricted stock units (RSUs) that are considered to be participating securities. Due to the presence of participating securities, AbbVie calculates earnings per share (EPS) using the more dilutive of the treasury stock or the two-class method. For all periods presented, the two-class method was more dilutive.  

The following table summarizes the impact of the two-class method: 

As further described in Note 12, in both 2016 and 2015, AbbVie entered into and executed an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with third party financial institutions. For purposes of calculating EPS, AbbVie reflected the ASR as a repurchase of AbbVie common stock in the relevant periods. 
  Certain shares issuable under stock-based compensation plans were excluded from the computation of EPS because the effect would have been antidilutive. The number of common shares excluded was insignificant for all periods presented. 
   
  Note 5 Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements                 

Acquisition of Stemcentrx 
    
  On June 1, 2016, AbbVie acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in Stemcentrx, a privately-held biotechnology company. The transaction expands AbbVie s oncology pipeline by adding the late-stage asset rovalpituzumab tesirine (Rova-T),   four   additional early-stage clinical compounds in solid tumor indications and a significant portfolio of pre-clinical assets. Rova-T is currently in registrational trials for small cell lung cancer.  
    
  The acquisition of Stemcentrx has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.     The aggregate upfront consideration for the acquisition of Stemcentrx consisted of approximately   62.4 million   shares of AbbVie common stock, issued from common stock held in treasury, and cash. AbbVie may make up to   $4.0 billion   in additional payments upon the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones. The acquisition-date fair value of this contingent consideration totaled   $620 million   and was estimated using a combination of probability-weighted discounted cash flow models and Monte Carlo simulation models. The estimate was based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market, referred to as Level 3 inputs, as described in more detail in Note 10. The following table summarizes total consideration: 

The following table summarizes fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the June 1, 2016 acquisition date: 
                     (in millions) 
      
      Assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
      
      Accounts receivable 
    $ 
    1 
      
      Prepaid expenses and other 
    7 
      
      Property and equipment 
    17 
      
      Intangible assets - Indefinite-lived research and development 
    6,100 
      
      Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 
    (31 
    ) 
      Deferred income taxes 
    (1,933 
    ) 
      Other long-term liabilities 
    (7 
    ) 
      Total identifiable net assets 
    4,154 
      
      Goodwill 
    2,272 
      
      Total assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
    $ 
    6,426 

Intangible assets related to IPR D for Rova-T,   four   additional early-stage clinical compounds in solid tumor indications and several additional pre-clinical compounds. The estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D was determined using the multi-period excess earnings model of the  income approach,  which is a valuation technique that provides an estimate of the fair value of an asset based on market participant expectations of the cash flows an asset would generate over its remaining useful life. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the development of those asset valuations include the estimated annual cash flows for each asset or product (including net revenues, cost of sales, R D costs, selling and marketing costs and working capital/contributory asset charges), the appropriate discount rate to select in order to measure the risk inherent in each future cash flow stream, the assessment of each asset s life cycle, the regulatory approval probabilities, commercial success risks, competitive landscape, as well as other factors. 
    
  The goodwill recognized from the acquisition of Stemcentrx represents expected synergies, including the ability to: (i) leverage the respective strengths of each business; (ii) expand the combined company s product portfolio; (iii) accelerate AbbVie's clinical and commercial presence in oncology; and (iv) establish a strong leadership position in oncology and was impacted by the establishment of a deferred tax liability for the acquired identifiable intangible assets which have no tax basis. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 
    
  Subsequent to the acquisition date, the company made certain measurement period adjustments including a refinement of the discount rate assumption, to increase the fair value of consideration transferred by   $273 million   and made measurement period adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation, including: (i) an increase to indefinite-lived research and development intangible assets of   $330 million  ; (ii) an increase to deferred income tax liabilities of   $78 million  ; and (iii) an increase to goodwill of   $21 million  . These measurement period adjustments have been reflected in the tables above. The company made these measurement period adjustments to reflect facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and did not result from intervening events subsequent to such date. These adjustments did not have a significant impact on AbbVie's results of operations. In the fourth quarter of   2016  , the company finalized its valuation of the acquisition date assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
    
  Following the acquisition date, the operating results of Stemcentrx have been included in the company's financial statements. AbbVie s consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended   December 31, 2016   included   no   net revenues and an operating loss of   $165 million   associated with Stemcentrx's operations. This operating loss included   $43 million   of post-acquisition stock-based compensation expense for Stemcentrx options and excluded interest expense and certain acquisition costs.  

Pro Forma Financial Information 
    
  The following table presents the unaudited pro forma combined results of operations of AbbVie and Stemcentrx for the years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2015   as if the acquisition of Stemcentrx had occurred on January 1, 2015: 

The unaudited pro forma financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial information of AbbVie and Stemcentrx. In order to reflect the occurrence of the acquisition on January 1, 2015 as required, the unaudited pro forma financial information includes adjustments to reflect the additional interest expense associated with the issuance of debt to finance the acquisition and the reclassification of acquisition, integration and financing-related costs incurred during the year ended   December 31, 2016   to the year ended   December 31, 2015  . The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations would have been had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2015. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information is not a projection of the future results of operations of the combined company nor does it reflect the expected realization of any cost savings or synergies associated with the acquisition. 
    
  Acquisition of BI 655066 and BI 655064 from Boehringer Ingelheim 
    
  On April 1, 2016, AbbVie acquired all rights to risankizumab (BI 655066), an anti-IL-23 monoclonal biologic antibody in Phase 3 development for psoriasis, from Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) pursuant to a global collaboration agreement. AbbVie is also evaluating the potential of this biologic therapy in Crohn s disease, psoriatic arthritis and asthma. In addition to risankizumab, AbbVie also gained rights to an anti-CD40 antibody, BI 655064, currently in Phase 1 development. BI will retain responsibility for further development of BI 655064 and AbbVie may elect to advance the program after completion of certain clinical achievements. The acquired assets include all patents, data, know-how, third-party agreements, regulatory filings and manufacturing technology related to BI 655066 and BI 655064. 
    
  The company concluded that the acquired assets met the definition of a business and accounted for the transaction as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie made an upfront payment of   $595 million  .   $18 million   of additional payments to BI pursuant to a contractual obligation to reimburse BI for certain development costs it incurred prior to the acquisition date were deferred. In addition, AbbVie may make additional contingent payments upon the achievement of defined development, regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalty payments based on net revenues of licensed products. The maximum aggregate amount payable for development and regulatory milestones is approximately   $1.6 billion  . The acquisition-date fair value of these milestones was   $606 million  . In addition, the acquisition-date fair value of contingent royalty payments was   $2.8 billion  . The potential contingent consideration payments were estimated by applying a probability-weighted expected payment model for contingent milestone payments and a Monte Carlo simulation model for contingent royalty payments, which were then discounted to present value. The fair value measurements were based on Level 3 inputs. The following table summarizes total consideration: 

The following table summarizes fair values of assets acquired as of the April 1, 2016 acquisition date: 
                     (in millions) 
      
      Assets acquired 
      
      Identifiable intangible assets - Indefinite-lived research and development 
    $ 
    3,890 
      
      Goodwill 
    88 
      
      Total assets acquired 
    $ 
    3,978 

The estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D was determined using the multi-period excess earnings model of the  income approach.  The goodwill recognized from this acquisition includes expected synergies, including an expansion of the combined company s immunology product portfolio.  
    
  Subsequent to the acquisition date, the company made a measurement period adjustment to decrease the fair value of consideration transferred by   $397 million   and made measurement period adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation, including: (i) a decrease to indefinite-lived research and development intangible assets of   $460 million  ; and (ii) an increase to goodwill of   $63 million  . These measurement period adjustments have been reflected in the tables above. The company made these measurement period adjustments to reflect facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and did not result from intervening events subsequent to such date. In the fourth quarter of   2016  , the company finalized its valuation of the acquisition date assets acquired. 
    
  Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented because this acquisition is insignificant to AbbVie s consolidated results of operations. 
  Acquisition of Pharmacyclics 
  On May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics, a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel therapies for people impacted by cancer. Pharmacyclics markets IMBRUVICA  (ibrutinib), a Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, targeting B-cell malignancies.  
  The acquisition of Pharmacyclics was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. The total consideration for the acquisition of Pharmacyclics consisted of cash and approximately   128 million   shares of AbbVie common stock and is summarized as follows: 

The following table summarizes the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the May 26, 2015 acquisition date: 

The amortization of the fair market value step-up for acquired inventory was included in cost of products sold and R D in the consolidated statements of earnings. The related amortization was   $274 million   in   2016   and   $113 million   in   2015  .  
  Intangible assets relate to the IMBRUVICA developed product rights, IPR D in the United States related to additional indications for IMBRUVICA and the contractual rights to IMBRUVICA profits and losses outside the United States as a result of the collaboration agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc. and its affiliates (Janssen), one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical companies of Johnson   Johnson. See Note 6 for additional information regarding the collaboration with Janssen. The acquired definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized over a weighted-average estimated useful life of   12   years using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. The estimated fair value of the IPR D and identifiable intangible assets was determined using the "income approach." 
  The goodwill recognized from the acquisition of Pharmacyclics includes expected synergies, including the ability to leverage the respective strengths of each business, expanding the combined company's product portfolio, acceleration of clinical and commercial presence in oncology and establishment of a strong leadership position in hematological oncology. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. 
  In the second quarter of   2016  , the company finalized its valuation of the acquisition date assets acquired and liabilities assumed. There were   no   measurement period adjustments in   2016  .  
  From the acquisition date through December 31, 2015, AbbVie's 2015 consolidated statement of earnings included net revenues of   $774 million   and an operating loss of   $519 million   associated with Pharmacyclics' operations. The operating loss included   $346 million   of acquisition-related compensation expense,   $261 million   of inventory step-up and intangible asset amortization and   $100 million   of transaction and integration costs. Of these costs,   $294 million   was recorded within SG A expenses,   $152 million   within R D expense and   $261 million   within cost of products sold in the 2015 consolidated statement of earnings. 

Pro Forma Financial Information 
  The following table presents the unaudited pro forma combined results of operations of AbbVie and Pharmacyclics for 2015 and 2014 as if the acquisition of Pharmacyclics had occurred on January 1, 2014: 

The unaudited pro forma financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial information of AbbVie and Pharmacyclics. In order to reflect the occurrence of the acquisition on January 1, 2014 as required, the unaudited pro forma financial information includes adjustments to reflect the incremental amortization expense to be incurred based on the fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired; the incremental cost of products sold related to the fair value adjustments associated with the acquisition-date inventory; the additional interest expense associated with the issuance of debt to finance the acquisition; and the reclassification of acquisition, integration and financing-related costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2015 to the year ended December 31, 2014. The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations would have been had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2014. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information is not a projection of the future results of operations of the combined company nor does it reflect the expected realization of any cost savings or synergies associated with the acquisition. 
  Other Licensing   Acquisitions Activity 
  Excluding the acquisitions above, cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled   $262 million   in   2016  ,   $964 million   in   2015   and   $622 million   in   2014  . AbbVie recorded IPR D charges of   $200 million   in   2016  ,   $150 million   in   2015   and   $352 million   in   2014  . In 2014, AbbVie also recorded other operating expenses of   $750 million   related to the collaboration with Calico Life Sciences LLC (Calico). Significant arrangements impacting   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , some of which require contingent milestone payments, are summarized below. 
  C   2   N Diagnostics 
  In March 2015, AbbVie entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C   2   N Diagnostics (C   2   N) to develop and commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of   $100 million  , which was expensed to IPR D in 2015. In 2016, AbbVie made an additional payment of   $35 million  , which was recorded in R D expense, due to the achievement of a development milestone under the license agreement. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to   $650 million  , as well as royalties on net revenues. 
  Calico Life Sciences LLC 
  In September 2014, AbbVie and Calico entered into a novel R D collaboration agreement to discover, develop and commercialize new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. In 2014, AbbVie recorded   $750 million   in other operating expense in the consolidated statement of earnings related to its commitments under the agreement of which   $250 million   was paid in 2014 and   $500 million   was paid in early 2015. Calico is responsible for research and early development during the first   five   years and will continue to advance collaboration projects through Phase 2a for a   10   year period. AbbVie will have the option to exclusively license collaboration compounds after completion of Phase 2a. AbbVie will support Calico in its early R D efforts and, upon option exercise, would be responsible for all late-stage development and commercial activities. Collaboration costs and profits will be shared equally by both companies post option exercise. 

Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
  In September 2014, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration agreement with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Infinity) to develop and commercialize duvelisib (IPI-145) for the treatment of patients with cancer. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of   $275 million  , which was expensed to IPR D in the third quarter of 2014. In 2015, AbbVie made an additional payment of   $130 million  , which was recorded in R D expense in the consolidated statement of earnings, due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration agreement. In June 2016, AbbVie exercised its right to end its global collaboration with Infinity. Pursuant to the terms of the global collaboration agreement, the worldwide rights to duvelisib reverted to Infinity.  
  Other Arrangements 
  In addition to the significant arrangements described above, AbbVie entered into several other arrangements resulting in charges to IPR D of   $200 million   in   2016  ,   $50 million   in   2015   and   $77 million   in   2014  . In connection with the other individually insignificant early stage arrangements entered into in 2016, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to   $2.6 billion   upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones. 
  Other Activity 
  Priority Review Voucher (PRV) 
  In August 2015, AbbVie entered into an agreement to purchase a rare pediatric disease PRV from a third party. The PRV entitles AbbVie to receive an FDA priority review of a single New Drug Application or Biologics License Application, which reduces the target review time and could lead to an expedited approval. In exchange for the PRV, AbbVie made a payment of   $350 million  , which was recorded in R D expense in the consolidated statement of earnings and as an operating cash outflow in the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2015. AbbVie intends to use the PRV for an existing R D project. 
  Termination of Proposed Combination with Shire 
  On October 15, 2014, AbbVie's board of directors withdrew its previous recommendation to AbbVie stockholders in favor of a proposed combination with Shire and recommended stockholders vote against the proposed combination. On October 20, 2014, AbbVie and Shire mutually agreed to terminate the proposed combination. In 2014, the company incurred transaction and financing-related costs totaling   $1.8 billion  , of which   $1.7 billion   was recorded in SG A expenses and   $141 million   was recorded in interest expense, net in the consolidated statement of earnings. Included in SG A expenses was a break fee of   $1.6 billion  , which was tax deductible, paid by AbbVie to Shire in October 2014 as a result of the termination of the proposed combination. In addition, the company recorded   $666 million   of net foreign exchange losses primarily due to undesignated forward contracts that were entered into to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire and the exit of certain foreign currency positions. The forward contracts were settled in 2014. In the first quarter of 2015, AbbVie recorded additional foreign exchange losses of   $170 million   to reflect the completed liquidation of its remaining foreign currency positions.  
   
  Note 6 Collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc. 

In December 2011, Pharmacyclics entered into a worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Janssen for the joint development and commercialization of IMBRUVICA, a novel, orally active, selective covalent inhibitor of BTK and certain compounds structurally related to IMBRUVICA, for oncology and other indications, excluding all immune and inflammatory mediated diseases or conditions and all psychiatric or psychological diseases or conditions, in the United States and outside the United States. 
  The collaboration provides Janssen with an exclusive license to commercialize IMBRUVICA outside of the United States and co-exclusively with AbbVie in the United States. Both parties are responsible for the development, manufacturing and marketing of any products generated as a result of the collaboration. The collaboration has no set duration or specific expiration date and provides for potential future development, regulatory and approval milestone payments of up to   $200 million   to AbbVie. 
  Janssen is responsible for and has exclusive rights to commercialize IMBRUVICA outside the United States. While both parties have co-exclusive rights to commercialize the products in the United States, AbbVie is the principal in the end customer product sales. For sales of IMBRUVICA in the United States, revenues are included in net revenues. AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and losses equally from the commercialization of products. Amounts payable to AbbVie by Janssen for IMBRUVICA collaboration profits outside the United States are included in net revenues. Amounts payable to Janssen by AbbVie for IMBRUVICA collaboration profits in the United States are included in cost of products sold. The  

collaboration also includes a cost sharing arrangement for associated collaboration activities. Except in certain cases, in general, Janssen is responsible for approximately   60%   of collaboration development costs and AbbVie is responsible for the remaining   40%   of collaboration development costs. Operating expenses for costs incurred under the collaboration are reported in their respective expense line items, net of any payments due to or reimbursements due from Janssen.  
    
  The following table shows the profit and cost sharing relationship between Janssen and AbbVie: 

Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Goodwill 
  The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill: 

The latest impairment assessment of goodwill was completed in the third quarter of   2016  . As of December 31,   2016  , there were   no   accumulated goodwill impairment losses. Future impairment tests for goodwill will be performed annually in the third quarter, or earlier if impairment indicators exist. 
  Intangible Assets, Net 
  The following table summarizes intangible assets: 

Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range between   2   to   16   years with an average of   12   years for developed product rights and   11   years for license agreements. In   2016  , AbbVie reclassified an aggregate   $7.6 billion   of indefinite-lived research and development intangible assets to developed product rights and license agreements intangible assets upon receiving certain regulatory approvals related to IMBRUVICA and ZINBRYTA. These intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives using the estimated pattern of economic  

benefit. Additionally, in 2016, AbbVie reduced both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by   $396 million   for certain developed product rights and license agreements that are fully amortized and no longer generating cash flows. 
  Amortization expense was   $764 million   in   2016  ,   $419 million   in   2015   and   $403 million   in   2014   and was included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The anticipated annual amortization expense for definite lived intangible assets recorded as of December 31,   2016   is as follows: 

In the first quarter of   2016  , an impairment charge   of   $39 million     was recorded related to certain developed product rights in the United States due to a decline in the market for the product. In     2015  ,     no     intangible asset impairment charges were recorded.     In the third quarter of   2014  , an impairment charge of   $37 million   was recorded related to certain on-market product rights in Japan due to increased generic competition. The 2016 and 2014 impairment charges were based on discounted cash flow analyses and were included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. 
  The indefinite-lived intangible assets represent acquired IPR D associated with products that have not yet received regulatory approval. Indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31,   2016   primarily related to the acquisition of Stemcentrx and BI compounds. Indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31,   2015   primarily related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. See Note 5 for additional information. The latest impairment assessment of intangible assets not subject to amortization was completed in the third quarter of 2016.   No   impairment charges were recorded in   2016   and   2015   and those recorded in   2014   were insignificant. Future impairment tests for indefinite-lived intangible assets will be performed annually in the third quarter, or earlier if impairment indicators exist. 
   
  Note 8 Restructuring Plans 

AbbVie continuously evaluates its operations to identify opportunities to optimize its manufacturing and R D operations, commercial infrastructure and administrative costs and to respond to changes in its business environment, for example, in conjunction with the loss and expected loss of exclusivity of certain products. As a result, AbbVie management periodically approves individual restructuring plans to achieve these objectives. In   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , no such plans were individually significant. Restructuring charges recorded were   $52 million   in   2016  ,   $138 million   in   2015   and   $23 million   in   2014   and were primarily related to employee severance and contractual obligations. These charges were recorded in cost of products sold, R D expense and SG A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings based on classification of the affected employees or operations. 
  The following summarizes the cash activity in the restructuring reserve for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  : 

Note 9 Debt, Credit Facilities and Commitments and Contingencies 

The following is a summary of long-term debt: 

(a) 
    Excludes the effect of any related interest rate swaps. 
       
  In November 2016, the company issued    3.6 billion   aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes. These senior notes rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes at par between   one   and   three   months prior to maturity. In connection with the offering, debt issuance costs totaled   $17 million   and debt discounts incurred totaled   $9 million   and are being amortized over the respective terms of the notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The company used the proceeds to redeem   $4.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of   1.75%   senior notes due to mature in November 2017. As a result of this redemption, the company incurred a charge of   $39 million   (  $25 million   after tax) related to  

the make-whole premium, write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and other expenses. The charge was recorded in interest expense, net in the consolidated statement of earnings.  
    
  In May 2016, the company issued   $7.8 billion   aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. These senior notes rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes at par between   one   and   six   months prior to maturity. In connection with the offering, debt issuance costs totaled   $52 million   and debt discounts incurred totaled   $29 million   and are being amortized over the respective terms of the notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Of the   $7.7 billion   net proceeds,   $2.0 billion   was used to repay the company s outstanding term loan that was due to mature in November 2016, approximately   $1.9 billion   was used to finance the acquisition of Stemcentrx and approximately   $3.8 billion   was used to finance an ASR with a third party financial institution. See Note 5 for additional information related to the acquisition of Stemcentrx and Note 12 for additional information related to the ASR.  
  In September 2015, AbbVie entered into a   $2.0 billion     three  -year term loan credit agreement and a   $2.0 billion     364  -day term loan credit agreement (collectively, the term loan facilities). In November 2015, AbbVie drew on these term loan facilities and used the proceeds to refinance its   $4.0 billion   of senior notes that matured in November 2015. In connection with the May 2016 unsecured senior notes issuance, AbbVie repaid the   364  -day term loan credit agreement. The borrowings under the term loan facilities bear interest at variable rates which are adjusted based on AbbVie's public debt ratings.  
  In May 2015, the company issued   $16.7 billion   aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. The senior notes rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium and, except for the   1.80%   notes due 2018, AbbVie may redeem the senior notes at par between   one   and   six   months prior to maturity. Debt issuance costs incurred in connection with the offering totaled   $93 million   and are being amortized over the respective terms of the senior notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. Approximately   $11.5 billion   of the net proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and approximately   $5.0 billion   of the net proceeds were used to finance an ASR with a third party financial institution. See Note 5 for additional information related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and Note 12 for additional information related to the ASR. 
  In March 2015, AbbVie entered into an   $18.0 billion   bridge loan in support of the then planned acquisition of Pharmacyclics.   No   amounts were drawn under the bridge loan, which was terminated as a result of the company's May 2015 senior notes issuance. Interest expense, net in 2015 includes   $86 million   of costs related to the bridge loan. 
  AbbVie has outstanding   $6.7 billion   aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2012. AbbVie may redeem all of the senior notes of each series, at any time, or some of the senior notes of each series, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium.  
  At December 31,   2016  , the company was in compliance with its senior note covenants and term loan covenants.  
  Short-Term Borrowings 
  Short-term borrowings included commercial paper borrowings of   $377 million   at December 31,   2016   and   $400 million   at December 31,   2015  . The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings was   0.6%   in   2016  ,   0.3%   in   2015   and   0.2%   in   2014  . 
  In October 2014, AbbVie entered into a   $3.0 billion     five  -year revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2019. The revolving credit facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2016, the company was in compliance with all its credit facility covenants. Commitment fees under AbbVie's revolving credit facilities were insignificant in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  .   No   amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2015  . 

Maturities of Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations 
  The following table summarizes AbbVie's future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases, debt maturities and future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations as of December 31,   2016  : 

Lease expense was   $159 million   in   2016  ,   $146 million   in   2015   and   $115 million   in   2014  . AbbVie's operating leases generally include renewal options and provide for the company to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and other operating costs of the leased property. As of December 31,   2016  , annual future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations are insignificant. 
  Contingencies and Guarantees 
  In connection with the separation, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business other than income tax liabilities with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements and no special-purpose entities. In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie has periodically entered into third-party agreements, such as the assignment of product rights, which have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been primarily liable. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. AbbVie periodically acquires a business or product rights in which AbbVie agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain future events. 
   
  Note 10 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures                 

Risk Management Policy 
  The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. AbbVie's hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. The company uses derivative and nonderivative instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. AbbVie is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates and periodically enters into interest rate swaps, in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to manage exposure to changes in interest rates for investment securities and   none   of the company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk related contingent features; collateral is generally not required. 
  Financial Instruments 
  Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, with notional amounts totaling   $2.2 billion   at December 31,   2016   and   $1.5 billion   at December 31,   2015   are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded at fair value. The durations of these forward exchange contracts were generally less than   eighteen   months. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31,   2016   will be reclassified from AOCI and included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally not exceeding   six months   from the date of settlement.  

The company also enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables and intercompany loans. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains or losses are reflected in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. AbbVie held notional amounts of   $6.6 billion   at December 31,   2016   and   $6.8 billion   at December 31,   2015   of such undesignated foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 
  In 2014, the company entered into undesignated forward exchange contracts with a total notional amount of   $16.9 billion   to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire. A large portion of these contracts were originally due to mature in the first quarter of 2015, but were net settled in the fourth quarter of 2014. In 2014, the company realized   $490 million   in net foreign exchange losses associated with the Shire-related forward exchange contracts. 
  The company also uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts or foreign currency denominated debt to hedge its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company issued    3.6 billion   aggregate principal amount of senior Euro notes and designated the principal amounts of this foreign denominated debt as net investment hedges. Concurrently, the company settled foreign currency forward exchange contracts with aggregate notional amounts of    3.5 billion   (  $3.9 billion  ) that were designated as net investment hedges.  
  AbbVie is a party to interest rate hedge contracts, designated as fair value hedges, totaling   $11.8 billion   at December 31,   2016   and   $11.0 billion   at December 31,   2015  . The effect of the hedge contracts is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt. AbbVie records the contracts at fair value and adjusts the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount.  
  The following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments on the consolidated balance sheets: 

While certain derivatives are subject to netting arrangements with the company's counterparties, the company does not offset derivative assets and liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets. 
  The following table presents the amounts of gains/ (losses) from derivative instruments recognized in other comprehensive loss. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was insignificant for all periods presented:    

Assuming market rates remain constant through contract maturities, we expect to transfer pretax unrealized gains of   $194 million   into cost of products sold for foreign currency cash flow hedges during the next 12 months. 
    
  Related to AbbVie s non-derivative, foreign currency denominated debt designated as net investment hedges, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of   $101 million   in other comprehensive income (loss) in   2016  .  

The following table summarizes the pre-tax amounts and location of derivative instrument net gains/(losses) recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings, including the effective portions of the net gains/(losses) reclassified out of AOCI into net earnings. See Note 12 for the amount of net gains/(losses) reclassified out of AOCI. 

The gain/(loss) related to outstanding interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges is recognized in interest expense, net and directly offsets the (loss)/gain on the underlying hedged item, the fixed-rate debt, resulting in no net impact to interest expense, net for all periods presented.  
  Fair Value Measures 
  The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels: 
             
    Level 1 Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the company has the ability to access; 
                
    Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and 
                
    Level 3 Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of judgment by the company's management about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. 
     The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that were carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,   2016  : 

The following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that were carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,   2015  : 

The fair values of time deposits approximate their amortized cost due to the short maturities of these instruments. The fair values of available-for-sale debt securities were based on prices obtained from commercial pricing services. Available-for-sale equity securities consists of investments for which the fair values were determined by using the published market price per unit multiplied by the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives entered into by the company were valued using publicized spot curves for interest rate hedges and publicized forward curves for foreign currency contracts. The fair value measurements of the contingent consideration liabilities were determined based on significant unobservable inputs, including the discount rate, estimated probabilities and timing of achieving specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones and the estimated amount of future sales of the acquired products still in development. Changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes to one or a number of inputs, including discount rates, the probabilities of achieving the milestones, the time required to achieve the milestones and estimated future sales. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these inputs. Changes to the inputs described above could have a material impact on the company's financial position and results of operations in any given period. At December 31,   2016  , a   50 basis point   increase/decrease in the assumed discount rate would have decreased/increased the value of the contingent consideration liabilities by approximately   $180 million  . Additionally, at December 31,   2016  , a   five   percentage point increase/decrease in the assumed probability of success across all potential indications would have increased/decreased the value of the contingent consideration liabilities by approximately   $360 million  .  
    
  There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between the fair value measurement levels. The following table is a reconciliation of the fair value measurements that use significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), which consist of contingent consideration related to the acquisitions of Stemcentrx and BI compounds. See Note 5 for additional information. 

The change in fair value recognized in net earnings was recorded in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statement of net earnings for the   twelve months ended December 31, 2016  .  

In addition to the financial instruments that the company is required to recognize at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets, the company has certain financial instruments that were recognized at historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The book values, approximate fair values and bases used to measure the approximate fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31,   2016   are shown in the table below: 

The book values, approximate fair values and bases used to measure the approximate fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31,   2015   are shown in the table below:  

Investments primarily consist of cost method investments. To determine the fair values of other cost method investments, the company takes into consideration recent transactions, as well as the financial information of the investee, which represents a Level 3 basis of fair value measurement. The fair values of short-term and current borrowings approximate the carrying values due to the short maturities of these instruments. 
  The fair values of long-term debt, excluding fair value hedges and the term loans, were determined by using the published market price for the debt instruments, without consideration of transaction costs, which represents a Level 1 basis of fair value measurement. The fair values of the term loans were determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis using quoted market rates, which represents a Level 2 basis of fair value measurement. The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions. 

Available-for-sale Securities 
    
  Substantially all of the company s investments in debt and equity securities were classified as available-for-sale. As of December 31,   2016  ,   $309 million   of debt securities were classified as short-term. Long-term debt securities mature primarily within   five years  . There were no significant debt securities outstanding as of December 31,   2015  . Estimated fair values of available-for-sale debt securities were based on prices obtained from commercial pricing services. The following table is a summary of available-for-sale securities by type as of December 31,   2016  : 

AbbVie had   no   other-than-temporary impairments as of December 31,   2016  . For the years ended December 31,   2016   and   2015  , net realized gains were insignificant. 
  Concentrations of Risk 
  The company invests excess cash in time deposits, money market funds and debt securities to diversify the concentration of cash among different financial institutions. The company has established credit exposure limits and monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with financial institution deposits.  
  The functional currency of the company's Venezuela operations is the U.S. dollar due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. At December 31, 2015, there were   three   legal exchange mechanisms administered by the Venezuelan government. These were the official rate of   6.3   Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) per U.S. dollar, the Supplementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency (SICAD) rate of approximately   13.5   VEF per U.S. dollar and the Foreign Exchange Marginal System (SIMADI) rate of approximately   200  . Effective March 10, 2016, the Venezuelan government devalued the official rate of   6.3   to   10   VEF per U.S. dollar, eliminated the SICAD rate and replaced SIMADI with a new exchange mechanism, Divisa Complementaria (DICOM). As of December 31,   2016  , the DICOM rate was approximately   673   VEF per U.S. dollar. 
  During the first quarter of 2016, in consideration of declining economic conditions in Venezuela and a decline in transactions settled at the official rate, AbbVie determined that its net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar were no longer expected to be settled at the official rate of   10   VEF per U.S. dollar, but rather at the DICOM rate. Therefore, during the first quarter of 2016, AbbVie recorded a charge of   $298 million   to net foreign exchange loss to revalue its bolivar-denominated net monetary assets using the DICOM rate then in effect of approximately   270   VEF per U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2016, AbbVie s net monetary assets in Venezuela were   insignificant  .  
    
  AbbVie continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain, which have historically experienced challenges in credit and economic conditions. Substantially all of AbbVie s trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain are with government health systems. Outstanding net governmental receivables in these countries totaled   $244 million   at December 31,   2016   and   $525 million   at December 31,   2015  . The company also continues to do business with foreign governments in certain oil-exporting countries which have recently experienced a deterioration in economic conditions, including Saudi Arabia and Russia. Outstanding net governmental receivables were   $122 million   related to Saudi Arabia and   $110 million   related to Russia as of December 31,   2016  . Due to oil market conditions in recent years, liquidity issues in certain countries may result in delays in the collection of receivables. Global economic conditions and customer-specific factors may require the company to periodically re-evaluate the collectability of its receivables and the company could potentially incur credit losses. 
    
  Of total net accounts receivable,   three   U.S. wholesalers accounted for   51%   as of December 31,   2016   and   51%   as of December 31,   2015   and substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to these   three   wholesalers. 
    
  HUMIRA (adalimumab) is AbbVie's single largest product and accounted for approximately   63%   in   2016  ,   61%   in   2015   and   63%   in   2014   of AbbVie's total net revenues. 

Note 11 Post-Employment Benefits 

AbbVie sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. In addition, AbbVie provides medical benefits, primarily to eligible retirees in the United States and Puerto Rico, through other post-retirement benefit plans. Net obligations for these plans have been reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  . 
  AbbVie's principal domestic defined benefit plan is the AbbVie Pension Plan. AbbVie made voluntary contributions of   $150 million   in   2016  ,   $150 million   in   2015   and   $370 million   in   2014   to this plan. AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of   $150 million   to this plan subsequent to December 31,   2016  . 
  The benefit plan information in the table below pertains to the global AbbVie-sponsored defined benefit and other post-employment plans: 

The projected benefit obligations (PBO) in the table above included   $1.7 billion   at December 31, 2016 and   $1.5 billion   at December 31, 2015, related to international defined benefit plans. 

For plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) were   $5.3 billion   at December 31, 2016 and   $4.8 billion   at December 31, 2015. For those plans reflected in the table above in which the ABO exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2016, the ABO was   $3.2 billion  , the PBO was   $3.7 billion   and aggregate plan assets were   $2.2 billion  .  
  Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Loss 
  The following table summarizes the pre-tax gains and losses included in other comprehensive loss: 

The pre-tax amount of actuarial loss and prior service cost included in AOCI at December 31,   2016   that is expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost in   2017   is   $103 million   for defined benefit plans and   $3 million   for other post-employment plans. 
    
  Net Periodic Benefit Cost 

Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date 

The assumptions used in calculating the December 31,   2016   measurement date benefit obligations will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in   2017  . 
  Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost 

Effective December 31, 2015, AbbVie elected to change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs. Historically, AbbVie estimated these service and interest cost components of this expense utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. In late 2015, AbbVie elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. AbbVie elected to make this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows to the corresponding spot yield curve rates. AbbVie has accounted for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle. This change reduced AbbVie's net periodic benefit cost by approximately   $41 million   in 2016. This change had no effect on the 2015 or 2014 expense and did not affect the measurement of AbbVie's total benefit obligations.  
  For the December 31,   2016   post-retirement health care obligations remeasurement, the company assumed a   6.8 percent   pre-65 (  7.8 percent   post-65) annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to   4.5 percent   in 2064 and remain at that level thereafter. For purposes of measuring the 2016 post-retirement health care costs, the company assumed a   7.3 percent   pre-65 (  8.3 percent   post-65) annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to   4.5 percent   for 2064 and remain at that level thereafter. 
  Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. As of December 31,   2016  , a 1 percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: 
                               
    One percentage point 
      year ended December 31, 2016 (in millions) (brackets denote a reduction) 
    Increase 
      
    Decrease 
      Service cost and interest cost 
    $ 
    11 

$ 
    (9 
    ) 
      Projected benefit obligation 
    120 

(95 
    ) 

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets 

(a) 
    A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various large cap indices. 
              (b) 
    A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various mid cap indices. 

(c) 
    A mix of index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various non-US equity indices in both developed and emerging markets. 
              (d) 
    Securities held by actively managed accounts, index funds and mutual funds. 
              (e) 
    Funds having global mandates with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and strategies, including but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, financial futures, currencies and other securities, with objectives to outperform agreed upon benchmarks of specific return and volatility targets. 
              (f) 
    Investments in cash and cash equivalents. 
       
  Equities and registered investment companies having quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are quoted at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Investments held in pooled investment funds, common collective trusts or limited partnerships are valued at the net asset value (NAV) practical expedient to estimate fair value. The NAV is provided by the fund administrator and is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its liabilities. 
  The investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity securities and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are established for each plan and are generally made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The target investment allocations for the AbbVie Pension Plan is   35%   in equity securities,   20%   in fixed income securities and   45%   in asset allocation strategies and other holdings. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets of the AbbVie Pension Plan or any other plans' assets. 
  The plans' expected return on plan assets assumption is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions. 
  Expected Defined Benefit and Other Post-Employment Plan Payments 

The above table reflects total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from both plan and company assets. 
  Defined Contribution Plan 
  AbbVie's principal defined contribution plan is the AbbVie Savings Plan. AbbVie recorded expense of   $75 million   in   2016  ,   $73 million   in   2015   and   $67 million   in   2014   related to this plan. AbbVie provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation arrangements, to qualifying employees and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees. 

Note 12 Equity 

Stock-Based Compensation 
  AbbVie grants stock-based awards to eligible employees pursuant to the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (2013 ISP), which provides for several different forms of benefits, including nonqualified stock options, RSAs, RSUs and various performance-based awards. Under the 2013 ISP,   100 million   shares of AbbVie common stock were reserved for issuance as awards to AbbVie employees. The 2013 ISP also facilitated the assumption of certain awards granted under Abbott s incentive stock program, which were adjusted and converted into Abbott and AbbVie stock-based awards as a result of AbbVie's separation from Abbott. 
  Compensation expense for stock-based awards is measured based on the grant date fair value of the awards and the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Compensation cost for stock-based awards is amortized over the service period, which could be shorter than the vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible. Retirement eligible employees generally are those who are age   55   or order and have at least   ten years   of service. 
  Stock-based compensation expense is principally related to awards issued pursuant to the 2013 ISP and is summarized as follows:   

  Stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31,   2016   also included the post-combination impact related to Stemcentrx options. See Note 5 for additional information related to the Stemcentrx acquisition.  
  The realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation totaled   $55 million   in   2016  ,   $61 million   in   2015   and   $56 million   in   2014  . These amounts were recorded in additional paid in capital and were presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow in operating activities and an inflow in financing activities. 
  Stock Options 
  Stock options awarded pursuant to the 2013 ISP typically have a contractual term of   10   years and generally vest in one-third increments over a   three  -year period. The exercise price is equal to at least   100%   of the market value on the date of grant. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted were   $9.29   in   2016  ,   $9.96   in   2015   and   $9.83   in   2014  .  
  The following table summarizes AbbVie stock option activity in   2016  : 

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was   $325 million   in   2016  ,   $216 million   in   2015   and   $253 million   in   2014  . The total fair value of options vested during   2016   was   $28 million  . On June 1, 2016, AbbVie issued stock options for   1.1 million   AbbVie shares to holders of unvested Stemcentrx options as a result of the conversion of such options in connection with the Stemcentrx acquisition. These options were fair-valued using a lattice valuation model. See Note 5 for additional information related to the Stemcentrx acquisition. 
    
  As of December 31,   2016  ,   $34 million   of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized as expense over approximately the next   two years  .  
    
  RSAs, RSUs and Performance Shares 
  RSUs awarded to employees other than senior executives and other key employees pursuant to the 2013 ISP generally vest in one-third increments over a   three   year period. Recipients of these RSUs are entitled to receive dividend equivalents as dividends are declared and paid during the RSU vesting period. 
  The majority of the equity awards AbbVie grants to its senior executives and other key employees under the 2013 ISP are performance-based. Such awards granted before 2016 consisted of RSAs (or RSUs to the extent necessary for global employees) that generally vest in one-third increments over a   three  -to-  five   year period, with vesting contingent upon AbbVie achieving a minimum annual return on equity (ROE). Recipients are entitled to receive dividends (or dividend equivalents for RSUs) as dividends are declared and paid during the award vesting period. 
  In 2016, AbbVie redesigned certain aspects of its long-term incentive program. As a result, equity awards granted in   2016   to senior executives and other key employees consist of a combination of performance-vested RSUs and performance shares. The performance-vested RSUs have the potential to vest in one-third increments during a   three  -year performance period based on AbbVie s ROE relative to a defined peer group of pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences companies. The recipient may receive   one   share of AbbVie common stock for each vested award. The performance shares have the potential to vest over a   three  -year performance period and may be earned based on AbbVie s EPS achievement and AbbVie s total stockholder return (TSR) (a market condition) relative to a defined peer group of pharmaceutical, biotech and life sciences companies. Dividend equivalents on performance-vested RSUs and performance shares accrue during the performance period and are payable at vesting only to the extent that shares are earned. 
  The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSAs, RSUs and performance shares generally is determined based on the number of shares/units granted and the quoted price of AbbVie s common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of performance shares with a TSR market condition are determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.  
    
  The following table summarizes AbbVie RSA, RSU and performance share activity for   2016  : 

The fair market value of RSAs, RSUs and performance shares (as applicable) vested was   $362 million   in   2016  ,   $335 million   in   2015   and   $338 million   in   2014  . 
  As of December 31,   2016  ,   $228 million   of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSAs, RSUs and performance shares is expected to be recognized as expense over approximately the next   two   years. 

Cash Dividends 
  The following table summarizes quarterly cash dividends for the years ended December 31,   2016   and   2015  : 

Stock Repurchase Program 
  AbbVie's board of directors authorized increases to its existing stock repurchase program of   $4.0 billion   in April 2016 in anticipation of executing an ASR in connection with the Stemcentrx acquisition and of   $5.0 billion   in March 2015 in anticipation of executing an ASR in connection with the Pharmacyclics acquisition. The stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open-market or private transactions at management s direction depending on the company s cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. Shares repurchased under these programs are recorded at acquisition cost, including related expenses and are available for general corporate purposes. The following table shows details about AbbVie s ASR transactions: 

On June 2, 2016, the initial   54.4 million   shares of AbbVie s common stock related to the 2016 ASR were received. The 2016 ASR transaction was completed on September 28, 2016, resulting in the receipt of an additional   5.4 million   shares. AbbVie recorded the aggregate   $3.8 billion   purchase price of the 2016 ASR as a reduction to common stock held in treasury on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31,   2016  .  
  In addition to the ASRs, AbbVie repurchased on the open market approximately   34 million   shares for   $2.1 billion   in   2016  ,   46 million   shares for   $2.8 billion   in   2015   and   9 million   shares for   $550 million   in   2014  . AbbVie's remaining share repurchase authorization was   $36 million   as of December 31,   2016  . On February 16, 2017, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a   $5.0 billion   increase to AbbVie's existing stock repurchase program. The stock repurchase authorization permits shares to be repurchased in open market or private transactions, has no time limit and may be discontinued at any time. 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
  The following table summarizes the changes in each component of AOCI, net of tax, for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  : 

Other comprehensive loss in   2016   included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of   $165 million  , which was principally due to the impact of the weakening of the Euro on the translation of the company s Euro -denominated assets. Other comprehensive loss in   2015   included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of   $667 million  , which was principally driven by the impact of the weakening of the Euro on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets. Other comprehensive loss in   2014   included foreign currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of   $1.1 billion  , which was principally driven by (i) the impact of the substantial weakening of the Euro in 2014 on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets and (ii) the weakening of foreign currencies in combination with an increased concentration of cash denominated in foreign currencies accumulated in anticipation of the terminated proposed combination with Shire. 

The table below presents the impact on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings for significant amounts reclassified out of each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss: 

(a) 
    Amounts are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost (see Note 11). 
       
           (b) 
    Amounts are included in cost of products sold (see Note 10). 
     Other 
  In addition to common stock, AbbVie's authorized capital includes   200 million   shares of preferred stock, par value   $0.01  . As of December 31,   2016  ,   no   shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding. 
   
  Note 13 Income Taxes 

Earnings Before Income Tax Expense 

The domestic loss before income taxes in 2014 was driven by transaction and financing-related costs associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire. See Note 5 for additional information. 
  Income Tax Expense 

Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation 

The effective tax rate fluctuates year to year due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain discrete factors and events in each year, including acquisitions and collaborations. The effective tax rates in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   differed from the statutory tax rate principally due to the benefit from foreign operations which reflects the impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, tax exemptions and incentives in Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, business development activities and the cost of repatriation decisions. The effective tax rates for these periods also reflected the benefit from U.S. tax credits principally related to research and development credits, the orphan drug tax credit and Puerto Rico excise tax credits. The Puerto Rico excise tax credits relate to legislation enacted by Puerto Rico that assesses an excise tax on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross inventory purchases from entities in Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The majority of the tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes.  
    
  The effective tax rate in 2016 included additional expense of   $187 million   related to the recognition of the tax effect of regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service on December 7, 2016 that changed the determination of the US taxability of foreign currency gains and losses related to certain foreign operations.  
    
   The effective income tax rate included a tax benefit of   $103 million   in   2015   from a reduction of state valuation allowances. 
  The effective tax rate in 2014 included additional expenses of   $129 million   related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, which is non-deductible and state valuation allowances of   $129 million  . On July 28, 2014, the Internal Revenue Service issued final rules and regulations for the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, an annual non-tax-deductible fee payable to the federal government under the Affordable Care Act based on an allocation of a company's market share for branded prescription drugs sold to certain government programs in the prior year. The final rules accelerated the expense recognition criteria for the fee obligation from the year in which the fee is paid, to the year in which the market share used to allocate the fee is determined. This change required AbbVie and other industry participants to recognize an additional year of expense in 2014. 

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 

The increases in the deferred tax liabilities were primarily due to the acquisition of Stemcentrx in which AbbVie recorded the excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets. 
  As of December 31,   2016  , gross state net operating losses were   $847 million   and tax credit carryforwards were   $188 million  . The state tax carryforwards expire between 2017 and 2036. As of   December 31, 2016  , foreign net operating loss carryforwards were   $198 million  . Foreign net operating loss carryforwards of   $166 million   expire between 2017 and 2026 and the remaining do not have an expiration period. 
  The company had valuation allowances of   $76 million   as of December 31,   2016   and   $70 million   as of December 31,   2015  . These were principally related to state net operating losses and credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized. 
  Deferred income taxes have not been provided on approximately   $29 billion   of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested for continued use in foreign operations. Due to the complexities in tax laws and assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of income taxes that would be due if these earnings were distributed. 
  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

AbbVie and Abbott entered into a tax sharing agreement, effective on the date of separation, which provides that Abbott is liable for and has indemnified AbbVie against all income tax liabilities for periods prior to the separation. AbbVie will be responsible for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties for periods after separation or in instances where an existing entity was transferred to AbbVie upon separation. 

If recognized, the net amount of potential tax benefits that would impact the company's effective tax rate is   $1.1 billion   in   2016   and   $901 million   in   2015  . Of the unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the table above as of December 31,   2016  , AbbVie would be indemnified for approximately   $96 million  . The "Increase due to prior year tax positions" in the table above includes amounts relating to federal, state and international items as well as prior positions acquired through business development activities during the year. Uncertain tax positions are generally included as a long-term liability on the consolidated balance sheets. 
  AbbVie recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense in the consolidated statements of earnings. AbbVie recognized gross income tax expense of   $35 million   in   2016  ,   $13 million   in   2015   and   $10 million   in   2014  , for interest and penalties related to income tax matters. AbbVie had an accrual for the payment of gross interest and penalties of   $112 million   at December 31,   2016  ,   $83 million   at December 31,   2015   and   $25 million   at December 31,   2014  .  
  The company is routinely audited by the tax authorities in significant jurisdictions and a number of audits are currently underway. It is reasonably possible during the next twelve months that uncertain tax positions may be settled, which could result in a decrease in the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the potential for resolution of federal, state and foreign examinations and the expiration of various statutes of limitation, the company's gross unrecognized tax benefits balance may change within the next twelve months up to   $201 million  . All significant federal, state, local and international matters have been concluded for years through 2005. The company believes adequate provision has been made for all income tax uncertainties. 
   
     Note 14 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 

AbbVie is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property, commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. The recorded accrual balance for litigation was approximately   $225 million   as of December 31,   2016   and approximately   $170 million   at December 31,   2015  . Initiation of new legal proceedings or a change in the status of existing proceedings may result in a change in the estimated loss accrued by AbbVie. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
  Subject to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement by and between Abbott and AbbVie, AbbVie assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters related to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part of its business, but were discontinued prior to the distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. 
  Several pending lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010 and now known as AbbVie Products LLC) and others are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under the Multi-District Litigation (MDL) Rules as   In re: AndroGel Antitrust Litigation  , MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), generally allege Solvay's patent litigation involving AndroGel was sham litigation and the 2006 patent litigation settlement agreements and related agreements with   three   generic companies violate federal antitrust laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. These cases include: (a)   four   individual plaintiff lawsuits; (b)   three   purported class actions; and (c)   Federal Trade Commission v. Actavis, Inc. et al.   Following the district court's dismissal of all plaintiffs' claims, appellate proceedings led to the reinstatement of the claims regarding the patent litigation settlements, which are proceeding in discovery in the district court. The Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in these lawsuits. 
  Lawsuits are pending against AbbVie and others generally alleging that the 2005 patent litigation settlement involving Niaspan entered into between Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company acquired by Abbott in 2006 and presently a subsidiary of AbbVie) and a generic company violates federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The lawsuits consist of   four   individual plaintiff lawsuits and   two   consolidated purported class actions: one brought by three named direct purchasers of Niaspan and the other brought by ten named end-payor purchasers of Niaspan. The cases are consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the MDL Rules as   In re: Niaspan Antitrust Litigation  , MDL No. 2460. The office of the Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a  

Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in this lawsuit. In October 2016, the State of California filed a lawsuit regarding the Niaspan patent litigation settlement in Orange County Superior Court, asserting a claim under the unfair competition provision of the California Business and Professions Code seeking injunctive relief, restitution, civil penalties and attorneys' fees. 
  In November 2007, GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) filed a lawsuit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that Abbott violated federal antitrust and various state laws in connection with the 2003 Norvir re-pricing. In March 2011, a jury found that Abbott did not violate antitrust laws, but breached its license agreement with GSK. In January 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed this verdict and remanded the case for a new trial due to the alleged improper exclusion of a potential juror. The case was returned to the district court in California, but after GSK dismissed its federal antitrust claims, the case was transferred in April 2015 to the United States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina, where pre-trial proceedings are pending. AbbVie assumed the liability for and control of this proceeding in connection with its separation from Abbott. 
  In September 2014, the FTC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against AbbVie and others, alleging that the 2011 patent litigation with   two   generic companies regarding AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement with one of those generic companies violates federal antitrust laws. The FTC's complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. In May 2015, the court dismissed the FTC's claim regarding the patent litigation settlement. The office of the Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in this lawsuit. 
  In March 2015, the State of Louisiana filed a lawsuit,   State of Louisiana v. Fournier Industrie et Sante, et al.  , against AbbVie, Abbott and affiliated Abbott entities in Louisiana state court. Plaintiff alleges that patent applications and patent litigation filed and other alleged conduct from the early 2000's and before related to the drug TriCor violated Louisiana State antitrust and unfair trade practices laws. The lawsuit seeks monetary damages and attorneys' fees. In August 2015, the court dismissed the case as time-barred. In December 2016, the appellate court for the state s appeal remanded for the trial court to determine whether the state is a proper party in interest. 
  In August 2013, a putative class action lawsuit,   Sidney Hillman Health Center of Rochester, et al. v. AbbVie Inc., et al.  , was filed against AbbVie in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by three healthcare benefit providers alleging violations of Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) statutes and state deceptive business practice and unjust enrichment laws in connection with reimbursements for certain uses of Depakote from 1998 to 2012. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages and/or equitable relief and attorneys' fees. In June 2016, the court granted AbbVie s motion to dismiss, without prejudice, and the plaintiffs have filed an amended complaint. 
  In November 2014, a putative class action lawsuit,   Medical Mutual of Ohio v. AbbVie Inc., et al.  , was filed against several manufacturers of testosterone replacement therapies (TRTs), including AbbVie, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on behalf of all insurance companies, health benefit providers and other third party payors who paid for TRTs, including AndroGel. The claims asserted include violations of the federal RICO Act and state consumer fraud and deceptive trade practices laws. The complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. A similar lawsuit,   Allied Services Division Welfare Fund v. AbbVie Inc., et al.  , was filed in the same court in October 2015 on behalf of the same putative class members and a putative class of consumers. 
  Product liability cases are pending in which plaintiffs generally allege that AbbVie and other manufacturers of TRTs did not adequately warn about risks of certain injuries, primarily heart attacks, strokes and blood clots. Approximately   3,941   claims are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the MDL Rules as   In re: Testosterone Replacement Therapy Products Liability Litigation  , MDL No. 2545. Approximately   217   claims are pending in various state courts. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages. 
  Product liability cases are pending in which plaintiffs generally allege that AbbVie did not adequately warn about risk of certain injuries, primarily various birth defects, arising from use of Depakote. Over   ninety   percent of the approximately   698   claims are pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois, and the rest are pending in various other federal and state courts. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages. 
  In November 2014,   five   individuals filed a putative class action lawsuit on behalf of purchasers and sellers of certain Shire plc (Shire) securities between June 20 and October 14, 2014, against AbbVie and its chief executive officer in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging that the defendants made and/or are responsible for material misstatements in violation of federal securities laws in connection with AbbVie's proposed transaction with Shire. 
  In June 2016, a lawsuit, Elliott Associates, L.P., et al. v. AbbVie Inc., was filed by   five   investment funds against AbbVie in the Cook County, Illinois Circuit Court alleging that AbbVie made misrepresentations and omissions in connection with its proposed transaction with Shire. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages. 

Beginning in May 2016, the Patent Trial   Appeal Board of the U.S. Patent   Trademark Office (PTO) instituted five inter partes review proceedings brought by Coherus Biosciences and Boehringer Ingelheim related to three AbbVie patents covering methods of treatment of rheumatoid arthritis using adalimumab. In these proceedings, the PTO will review the validity of the patents. 
  AbbVie is seeking to enforce certain patent rights related to adalimumab (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark HUMIRA ). In a case filed in United States District Court for the District of Delaware in August 2016, AbbVie alleges that Amgen Inc. s and Amgen Manufacturing, Limited s proposed biosimilar adalimumab product infringes certain AbbVie patents. AbbVie seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. 
   
  Note 15 Segment and Geographic Area Information                 

AbbVie operates in   one   business segment pharmaceutical products. Substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to   three   wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold primarily to health care providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. The following tables detail AbbVie's worldwide net revenues: 

Net revenues to external customers by geographic area, based on product shipment destination, were as follows: 

Long-lived assets, primarily net property and equipment, by geographic area were as follows: 

Note 16 Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 

(a) 
    Results for the first quarter of   2016   included a net foreign exchange loss of   $298 million   relating to the devaluation of AbbVie s net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar. Results for the first quarter of   2015   included after-tax foreign exchange losses of   $170 million   related to the liquidation in 2015 of remaining foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire in 2014, a   $100 million   after-tax charge as a  

result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C   2   N and after-tax costs of   $41 million   incurred in connection with the with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. 
    
           (b) 
    Second quarter results in   2016   included after-tax costs totaling   $122 million   relating to the acquisition of Stemcentrx and BI compounds as well as the amortization of the acquisition date fair value step-up for inventory related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Second quarter results for   2015   included after-tax costs totaling   $215 million   incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Pharmacyclics. 
       
           (c) 
    Third quarter results in   2016   included after-tax costs totaling   $104 million   relating to the change in fair value of contingent consideration. Results for the third quarter of   2015   included a   $350 million   after-tax charge related to the purchase of a rare pediatric disease PRV from a third party, after after-tax costs totaling   $85 million   incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Pharmacyclics and an   $83 million   after-tax charge due to the     achievement of a development milestone under the global collaboration with Infinity.  
       
           (d) 
    Fourth quarter results in   2016   included after-tax costs totaling   $187 million   associated with a tax law change for regulations issued in the fourth quarter of 2016 that revised the treatment of foreign currency translation gains and losses for certain operations and included after-tax costs totaling   $85 million   relating to the change in fair value of contingent consideration. Fourth quarter results for   2015   included after-tax costs totaling   $68 million   incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Pharmacyclics and after-tax charges of   $101 million   to increase the company's litigation reserves.  

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc. 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2016   and   2015   and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016  . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31,   2016   and   2015   and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated   February 17, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  February 17, 2017    

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None. 
   
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures; Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
          Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.      The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, and the Chief Financial Officer, William J. Chase, evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
          Changes in internal control over financial reporting.     There were no changes in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,   2016  . 
          Inherent limitations on effectiveness of controls.      AbbVie's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. 
  The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. 
          Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.      Management of AbbVie is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting. 
  Management assessed the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  . In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework   (2013 framework). Based on that assessment, management concluded that AbbVie maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on the COSO criteria. 
  The effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016   has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report below, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  . 

Report of independent registered public accounting firm.   The report of AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm related to its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting is included below. 

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc. 
  We have audited AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on the COSO criteria. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31,   2016   and   2015   and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016   of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and our report dated   February 17, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  February 17, 2017    

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

None. 

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its Committees Committees of the Board of Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2017 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The   2017   Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about   March 20, 2017  . Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found in this Form 10-K under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant." 
  AbbVie's code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and ethical principles and values. All directors, officers and employees of AbbVie are required to read, understand and abide by the requirements of the code of business conduct applicable to them. AbbVie's code of business conduct is available in the corporate governance section of AbbVie's investor relations website at www.abbvieinvestor.com. 
  Any waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, AbbVie will disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for directors on the website. 
  AbbVie has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to the chief executive officer and to the public policy committee. The chief ethics and compliance officer is responsible for overseeing, administering and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program. 
   
   ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The material to be included in the   2017   Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and "Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The   2017   Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about   March 20, 2017  . 

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

(a)      Equity Compensation Plan Information. 
  The following table presents information as of   December 31, 2016   about AbbVie's equity compensation plans under which AbbVie common stock has been authorized for issuance: 
                                 Plan Category 
    (a) 
   Number of 
   securities to be 
   issued upon 
   exercise of 
   outstanding 
   options, 
   warrants and 
   rights (1) 
      
    (b) 
   Weighted- 
   average exercise 
   price of 
   outstanding 
   options, 
   warrants and 
   rights (2) 
      
    (c) 
   Number of 
   securities 
   remaining 
   available for 
   future issuance 
   under equity 
   compensation 
   plans (excluding 
   securities 
   reflected in 
   column (a)) 
      Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
    25,991,282 

$ 
    33.63 

78,997,077 
      
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 

Total 
    25,991,282 

$ 
    33.63 

78,997,077 

(1) 
    Includes 10,761,273 shares issuable under AbbVie's Incentive Stock Program pursuant to awards granted by Abbott and adjusted into AbbVie awards in connection with AbbVie's separation from Abbott. 
       
           (2) 
    The weighted-average exercise price does not include outstanding restricted stock units and restricted stock awards that have no exercise price. 
       
           (b) 
    Information Concerning Security Ownership.      Incorporated herein by reference is the material under the heading "Securities Ownership Securities Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the   2017   Proxy Statement. The   2017   Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about   March 20, 2017  . 
      
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 

The material to be included in the   2017   Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance Materials," and "Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The   2017   Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about   March 20, 2017  . 
   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

The material to be included in the   2017   Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" is incorporated herein by reference. The   2017   Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about   March 20, 2017  . 

PART IV 
   
  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 
    Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K. 
              (1) 
    Financial Statements:      See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on page 47 hereof, for a list of financial statements. 
              (2) 
    Financial Statement Schedules:      All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information required is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 
              (3) 
    Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:      The information called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 103 through 105 of this Form 10-K. 
               (c) 
    Financial Statement Schedules:      None applicable. 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
                       AbbVie Inc. 
      By: 
      
    /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Name: 
      
    Richard A. Gonzalez 

Title: 
      
    Chairman of the Board and 
  Chief Executive Officer 
      Date: 
    February 17, 2017 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of AbbVie Inc. on   February 17, 2017   in the capacities indicated below. 
    
                   /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 
      
    /s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 
      Richard A. Gonzalez 
  Chairman of the Board and 
  Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    William J. Chase 
  Executive Vice President, 
  Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ THOMAS A. HURWICH 

Thomas A. Hurwich 
  Vice President, Controller 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 
      
    /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 
      Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 
      
    Roxanne S. Austin 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 

/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE 
      
    /s/ BRETT J. HART 
      William H.L. Burnside 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 
      
    Brett J. Hart 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 

/s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY 
      
    /s/ EDWARD J. RAPP 
      Edward M. Liddy 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 
      
    Edward J. Rapp 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 

/s/ GLENN F. TILTON 
      
    /s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL 
      Glenn F. Tilton 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 
      
    Frederick H. Waddell 
  Director of AbbVie Inc. 

EXHIBIT INDEX 
  ABBVIE INC. 
  ANNUAL REPORT 
  FORM 10-K 
              2016          
       
  Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
    
                     Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Exhibit Description 
      2.1 

*Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2016, by and among Stemcentrx, Inc., AbbVie Inc., Sirius Sonoma Corporation, AbbVie Stemcentrx LLC (formerly Sirius Sonoma LLC) and, solely for the purposes set forth therein, Fertile Valley LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of AbbVie s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on May 6, 2016). 
      2.2 

*Amendment No. 1, dated as of May 28, 2016, to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2016, by and among Stemcentrx, Inc., AbbVie Inc., Sirius Sonoma Corporation, AbbVie Stemcentrx LLC (formerly Sirius Sonoma LLC) and, solely for the purposes set forth therein, Fertile Valley LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 of AbbVie s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 1, 2016). 
      2.3 

*Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation, Oxford Amherst LLC and Pharmacyclics, Inc. dated as of March 4, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2015). 
      2.4 

*Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation, Oxford Amherst LLC and Pharmacyclics, Inc. dated as of March 22, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 23, 2015). 
      3.1 

*Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013). 
      3.2 

*Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2016). 
      4.1 

*Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012). 
      4.2 

*Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment No. 5 to the company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012). 
      4.3 

*Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated May 14, 2015, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2015). 
      4.4 

*Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated May 12, 2016, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of AbbVie s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2016). 
      4.5 

*Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 17, 2016, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as transfer agent and registrar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17,2016). 
      4.6 

*Agency Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2016, among AbbVie Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, Elavon Financial Services DAC, U.K. Branch, as paying agent and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as transfer agent and registrar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17,2016). 
      4.7 

*Support Agreement by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation and Robert W. Duggan dated as of March 4, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2015). 
      10.1 

*Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).** 
      10.2 

*AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the AbbVie Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A dated March 15, 2013).** 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Exhibit Description 
      10.3 

*AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).** 
      10.4 

*AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2016).** 
      10.5 

AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated.** 
      10.6 

*AbbVie Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2016).** 
      10.7 

AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan.** 
      10.8 

*AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2016). ** 
      10.9 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).** 
      10.10 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (CEO/Chairman) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).** 
      10.11 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Annual) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).** 
      10.12 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Interim) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).** 
      10.13 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013).** 
      10.14 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.15 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.16 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention Restricted Stock Unit Agreement - Cliff Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.17 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention Restricted Stock Unit Agreement - Ratable Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.18 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention Restricted Stock Agreement - Cliff Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.19 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Retention Restricted Stock Agreement - Ratable Vesting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.20 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.21 

*Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016).** 
      10.22 

*Stemcentrx 2011 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on June 16, 2016).** 
      10.23 

*Pharmacyclics, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on May 27, 2015).** 
      10.24 

*Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2014, among AbbVie Inc., AbbVie Private Limited, AbbVie Holdings Private Limited, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2014). 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Exhibit Description 
      10.25 

*Amendment No. 1 to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015, by and among AbbVie Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the lenders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2015). 
      10.26 

*Three-Year Term Loan Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2015, among AbbVie, Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2015). 
      10.27 

*364-Day Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2015, among AbbVie, Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2015). 
      10.28 

*364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2015, among the company, as borrower, the various financial institutions party thereto, as lenders and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 30, 2015). 
      10.29 

*Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2015, by and among AbbVie Inc. and Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several other underwriters named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2015). 
      10.30 

*Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2016, by and among AbbVie Inc., and Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule II thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of AbbVie s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2016). 
      10.31 

*Underwriting Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2016, by and among AbbVie Inc., and Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, J.P. Morgan Securities plc, Merrill Lynch International and Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc, as representatives of the several other underwriters named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2016). 
      12.1 

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
      12.2 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
      21 

Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc. 
      23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
      31.1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)). 
      31.2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)). 
      32.1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      32.2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      101 

The following financial statements and notes from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed on February 17, 2017, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Earnings; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The AbbVie Inc. 2017 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 20, 2017. 

_______________________________________________________________________________ 
            ** 
    Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto. 
     AbbVie will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a stockholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064. 

<EX-10.5>
 2
 abbv-20161231xex105.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.5

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.5 

ABBVIE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2017) 

ABBVIE 
  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
    
  ARTICLE I     INTRODUCTION 
  Section 1.1      Purpose  .  The AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is designed to assist the Employers in attracting and retaining key employees by providing Eligible Employees with the opportunity to defer the receipt of a portion of their compensation and to have that deferred compensation treated as if it were invested pending its distribution by the Plan.   
  Section 1.2      ERISA  .  The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is limited to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1). 
  Section 1.3      Employers  .  
  (a)    After the Effective Date, any Subsidiary of the Company that is not then an Employer may adopt the Plan with the Company s consent as described in   Section 13.12  . 
  (b)    Each Employer shall be liable to the Company for an amount equal to the Plan benefits earned by its Eligible Employees.  Where an Eligible Employee has been employed by more than one Employer, the Plan Administrator shall allocate the liability to the Company associated with that Eligible Employee s Plan benefits among his or her Employers.  The Plan Administrator shall establish procedures for determining the time at which and manner in which the Employers shall pay this liability to the Company. 
  Section 1.4      Effective Date  .  The Plan was adopted effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ) and amended and restated effective January 1, 2015.  The Plan hereby is further amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2017 (the  Restatement Effective Date ). 
  Section 1.5      Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott Laboratories Plan  .  As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants. 
  ARTICLE II     DEFINITIONS 
  When used in this Plan, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning, the following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth below.  Whenever appropriate, words used in the singular shall be deemed to include the plural, and   vice versa  , and the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine gender. 
  Section 2.1      Account  .   Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to   Article VI  . 
  Section 2.2      Base Compensation  .   Base Compensation  means, subject to the last sentence of this Section, the Participant s total compensation earned in a Plan Year for personal service actually rendered to an Employer, before deductions for (a) Deferral Elections made pursuant to   Section 4.1   or (b) contributions made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer Savings Plan or to any cafeteria plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), maintained by an Employer.   Base Compensation  for Plan purposes   excludes   Sales-Related Compensation, Eligible Bonuses, all other bonuses, commissions, relocation  
  
   1 

expenses, reimbursements, expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash or noncash), welfare benefits (whether or not those amounts are includible in gross income) and other non-regular forms of compensation. 
  Section 2.3      Beneficiary  .   Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to   Article IX  . 
  Section 2.4      Board of Review  .   Board of Review  means the AbbVie Employee Benefit Board of Review appointed by the Company s Board of Directors and having the powers and duties described in this Plan. 
  Section 2.5      Company  .   Company  means AbbVie Inc., its successors, any organization into which or with which AbbVie Inc. may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.  
  Section 2.6      Deferral Election  .   Deferral Election  means an election under the Plan by a Participant to defer the receipt of a portion of his or her Eligible Compensation made on a Deferral Election Form. 
  Section 2.7      Deferral Election Form  .   Deferral Election Form  means the form or other means provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to   Section 4.1   through which the Participant makes his or her Deferral Election. 
  Section 2.8      Deferral Account  .   Deferral Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Deferral Election pursuant to   Section 6.1  .  
  Section 2.9      Disability  .  The date of  Disability  of a Participant means the date on which the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, eligible to receive income replacement benefits for a period of six or more months under the terms of the AbbVie Long-Term Disability Plan ( LTD Plan ) or, for a Participant whose Employer does not participate in the LTD Plan, such similar accident and health plan in which his or her Employer participates. 
  Section 2.10      Distribution Election  .   Distribution Election  is defined in   Section 4.3(a)  . 
  Section 2.11      Distribution Election Form  .   Distribution Election Form  means the form or other means provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to   Section 4.3   through which the Participant specifies the time at which the amounts credited to one of the Participant s Account(s) are to be distributed and their method of payment. 
  Section 2.12      Effective Date  .   Effective Date  and  Restatement Effective Date  are defined in   Section 1.4  . 
  Section 2.13      Eligibility Date  .   Eligibility Date  is defined in   Section 3.1(b)  . 
  Section 2.14      Eligible Bonus  .   Eligible Bonus  means an annual cash incentive bonus for a Plan Year that the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, has designated as being eligible for deferral under the Plan.  As of the Restatement Effective Date, cash bonuses paid to Eligible Employees under the AbbVie Cash Profit Sharing Plan, the AbbVie Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Managerial Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Management Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, or any other similar Employer-sponsored annual incentive bonus plan with a performance period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of the applicable Plan Year are eligible for deferral under the Plan. 
  Section 2.15      Eligible Compensation  .   Eligible Compensation  means the Participant s Base Compensation, Sales-Related Compensation and Eligible Bonus(es). 
  Section 2.16      Eligible Employee  .   Eligible Employee  means any person employed by an Employer who is both: 
  
   2 

(i)    a United States employee or an expatriate who is based and paid in the United States; and 
  (ii)    shown as having a grade level of 20 (or equivalent level of compensation if on a different pay grade system) or higher on his or her Employer s Human Resource System, provided that, in the case of any person employed by Pharmacyclics LLC, the grade level is Pharmacyclics management level 6 or higher on the Pharmacyclics Human Resource System; 
  and who is   not  : 
  (a)     both a corporate officer of the Company   and   designated as eligible to participate in the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, except as contemplated by   Section 3.1   hereof for the Plan Year in which the person is first named a corporate officer; 
  (b)     an individual who provides services to an Employer under a contract, arrangement or understanding with either the individual directly or with an agency or leasing organization that treats the individual as either an independent contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization, even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have been a common law employee of an Employer rather than an independent contractor or employee of such agency or leasing organization; or 
  (c)     an Employee who is employed by an Employer located in Puerto Rico, other than a person designated as a  U.S. Expatriate  on the records of an Employer. 
  For all Plan purposes, an individual shall be an  Eligible Employee  for any Plan Year only if during that Plan Year an Employer treats that individual as its employee for purposes of employment taxes and wage withholding for Federal income taxes, even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have been a common law employee of an Employer in that Plan Year. 
  Section 2.17      Employer  .   Employer  shall mean the Company, the participating Employers on the Effective Date, and any Subsidiary of the Company that subsequently adopts the Plan in the manner provided in   Section 13.12  . 
  Section 2.18      Employer Contribution  .   Employer Contribution  means the contribution deemed to have been made by an Employer pursuant to   Section 5.1  .  
  Section 2.19      Employer Contribution Account  .   Employer Contribution Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Employer Contributions pursuant to   Section 6.1  .  
  Section 2.20      Employer Savings Plan  .   Employer Savings Plan  means any defined contribution retirement plan that is maintained by an Employer, qualified under Code Section 401(a), and includes a cash or deferred arrangement under Code Section 401(k).  The term shall specifically include, but not be limited to, the AbbVie Savings Plan. 
  Section 2.21      ERISA  .   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  
  Section 2.22      Hardship Distribution  .   Hardship Distribution  is defined in   Section 8.5(a)  . 
  Section 2.23      In-Service Distribution  .   In-Service Distribution  is defined in   Section 4.3  . 
  
   3 

Section 2.24      Initial Election  .   Initial Election  is defined in   Section 4.3(a)  . 
  Section 2.25      Investment Election  .   Investment Election  is defined in   Section 4.2(a)  . 
  Section 2.26      Investment Election Form  .   Investment Election Form  means the form or other means provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to   Section 4.2   through which the Participant specifies the Investment Funds in which the Participant s Account(s) are to be deemed to be invested. 
  Section 2.27      Investment Fund(s)  .   Investment Fund(s)  means one or more of the funds selected by the Plan Administrator pursuant to   Section 4.2  . 
  Section 2.28      Investment Fund Subaccounts  .   Investment Fund Subaccounts  is defined in   Section 6.1(b)  . 
  Section 2.29      Matching DCP Deferral  .   Matching DCP Deferral  for a Participant for a Plan Year is an amount equal to the total dollar amount of the Participant s deferrals for the Plan Year pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b), but in no event shall a Participant s Matching DCP Deferral for a Plan Year exceed the amount by which (a) the total of the Participant s Base Compensation plus Sales-Related Compensation for the Plan Year up to the limit on compensation as defined in Code Section 401(a)(17) exceeds (b) the total of the Participant s Base Compensation plus Sales-Related Compensation for the Plan Year less the total dollar amount deferred pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b) for the Plan Year. 
  Section 2.30      Participant  .   Participant  means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate in this Plan by filing a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election as provided in   Article IV   or is a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant. 
  Section 2.31      Plan  .   Plan  means this AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan. 
  Section 2.32      Plan Administrator  .   Plan Administrator  means the Board of Review. 
  Section 2.33      Plan Year  .   Plan Year  means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.   
  Section 2.34      Post-Distribution Participant.     Post-Distribution Participant  means: (a) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (i) was an employee of Abbott or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and (ii) had the liabilities associated with his or her account balances in the Abbott Deferred Compensation transferred to this Plan in accordance with Supplement A; and (b) any other individual on whose behalf liabilities are transferred from the Abbott Deferred Compensation Plan to the Plan in accordance with Supplement A in connection with an employment transfer during the Transition Period (as defined in the EMA). 
  Section 2.35      Rate of Return  .   Rate of Return  means, for each Investment Fund, an amount equal to the net gain or net loss (expressed as a percentage) on the assets of that Investment Fund. 
  Section 2.36      Retirement  .   Retirement  means a Participant s Termination of Employment after he or she has satisfied the age and service requirements of subsection (a), (b) or (c) below, as applicable: 
  (a)    With respect to Participants covered by the AbbVie Pension Plan (the  Pension Plan ): 
  (i)    for any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant who has an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan), the date on which the Participant attains age 50 with 10 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Pension Plan); or 
  
   4 

(ii)    for any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant who does not have an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan and any Participant covered by the Pension Plan who does not fall into the preceding categories and was hired by AbbVie on or after the Effective Date, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 with 10 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Pension Plan).   
  (b)    With respect to Participants covered by the AbbVie Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 with 5 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the AbbVie Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees). 
  (c)    With respect to Participants who are not covered by the Pension Plan or the AbbVie Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 with 10 years of service. 
  For purposes of calculating service under this Section 2.36, except as otherwise defined in the applicable plan referenced above or as otherwise provided  by the Plan Administrator or its delegate: (A) service is earned only if it is performed for a member of the AbbVie Inc. controlled group while that controlled group member is a part of the controlled group; (B) for Employees who transferred to the Company directly from Abbott Laboratories during the period from January 1, 2013 through June 30, 2015 either as a result of the Company s spin-off from Abbott Laboratories or with the consent of each company s head of human resources, service includes service with Abbott Laboratories that is counted for benefit calculation purposes under the AbbVie Pension Plan, the AbbVie Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees, or another Company-sponsored pension plan, as applicable; and (C) service for a Participant employed by Pharmacyclics LLC includes service with Pharmacyclics, Inc. and its subsidiaries earned prior to the date of acquisition by the Company, provided that the Participant was employed by Pharmacyclics, Inc. or its subsidiary on May 26, 2015. 
  Section 2.37      Sales-Related Compensation  .   Sales-Related Compensation  means, subject to the last sentence of this Section, the Participant s sales bonuses, sales incentives and sales commissions earned in a Plan Year from an Employer, before deductions for (a) Deferral Elections made pursuant to   Section 4.1   or (b) contributions made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer Savings Plan or to any cafeteria plan under Code Section 125 maintained by an Employer.   Sales-Related Compensation  for Plan purposes   excludes   Base Compensation, Eligible Bonuses, and all other compensation not specifically categorized as a sales bonus, sales incentive or sales commission. 
  Section 2.38      Separation Date  .   Separation Date  has the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement. 
  Section 2.39      Subsequent Election  .   Subsequent Election  is defined in   Section 4.3(c)  . 
  Section 2.40      Subsidiary  .   Subsidiary  means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or business trust organized in the United States 50 percent or more of the voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company. 
  Section 2.41      Termination of Employment  .   Termination of Employment  means the cessation of a Participant s services as an employee, whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other than death; provided, that the Participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment for purposes of the Plan until he or she would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from the Employer within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
  Section 2.42      Transferred Participant  .   Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), excluding a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie or one of its Subsidiaries under the Separation Agreement on or immediately after the Separation Date. 
  
   5 

Section 2.43      Unforeseeable Emergency  .   Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a natural disaster), or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Plan Administrator.  
      ARTICLE III 
  PARTICIPATION 
  Section 3.1      Participation  .   
  (a)    Except as provided in   Section 3.1(b)   and   (c)  , an Eligible Employee may become a Participant by making a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election pursuant to   Article IV   on or before the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to   Section 4.4  . 
  (b)    A newly hired individual who is an Eligible Employee shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month next following the month after the individual s date of hire (the  Eligibility Date    provided   that in no event shall such individual begin to participate in the plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  Notwithstanding the election requirements of   Section 3.1(a)  , a newly Eligible Employee who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c) may make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to   Article IV   within the 30-day period immediately following the Eligibility Date.  Any such election shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the Plan Administrator and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the Plan Year.   
  (c)    An individual who becomes an Eligible Employee as a result of a job promotion or transfer may make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to   Article IV   only with respect to Eligible Compensation to be earned in the Plan Year next following the year of such promotion or transfer.  Any such election shall be made in accordance with   Article IV   and shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned in the Plan Year following the year in which the election is made. 
  (d)    Participation of Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall be governed by Supplement A. 
  Section 3.2      Termination of Participation  .  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a Termination of Employment will remain a Participant but (i) may no longer make Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such termination and (ii) all deferrals under the Plan shall cease as of the date of the Participant s Termination of Employment.  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a job promotion (or demotion) may no longer make Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such promotion or demotion but the Participant s Deferral Elections for the Plan Year in which such promotion or demotion occurs shall remain irrevocable.  A Participant shall remain a Participant until (i) his or her death or (ii) his or her Accounts have been distributed. 
     ARTICLE IV 
  ELECTION FORMS 
  Section 4.1      Deferral Elections  .   
  (a)    Participants shall make their Deferral Elections annually on a form or by other means provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Deferral Election Form ). Each Deferral Election shall apply to only a single Plan Year. 
  (b)    On his or her Deferral Election Form, the Participant shall specify the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Base Compensation, the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Sales-Related  
  
   6 

Compensation, and the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Eligible Bonuses that the Participant elects to defer for that Plan Year together with such other information as the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, require. 
  (c)    For any Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer: 
  (i)    five percent (5%) to seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Base Compensation (in whole percentage increments),  
  (ii)    five percent (5%) to seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Sales-Related Compensation (in whole percentage increments), and 
  (iii)    five percent (5%) to seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Eligible Bonus(es) (in whole percentage increments); 
  provided, however, that in no event may a Participant elect to defer his or her Eligible Compensation to the extent that his or her remaining compensation would be insufficient to satisfy all applicable withholding taxes and contributions required under Employer-sponsored benefit plans in which the Participant participates. 
  (d)    A Participant may not revoke his or her Deferral Election at any time after the deadline for making such Deferral Election set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to   Section 4.4  . 
  Section 4.2      Investment Elections  .  The Plan Administrator shall, from time to time, make available investment options (the  Investment Funds ) that serve as benchmark funds for the amounts a Participant defers under the Plan.  A Participant s Plan deferrals shall not actually be invested in the Investment Funds and the Participant shall not be considered a shareholder of any of the Investment Funds he or she selects by virtue of participation in the Plan.  Instead, the Participant s Plan deferrals shall be considered invested in, and his or her Plan Account shall reflect such Investment Fund s Rate of Return. A Participant s election of investments shall be subject to the following rules: 
  (a)    Participants shall make their investment elections on an Investment Election Form or by other means provided by the Plan Administrator (an  Investment Election ).  
  (b)    The Investment Election Form completed by the Participant shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan Year and shall specify the Investment Funds in which the deferrals for each such Plan Year are to be deemed to be invested, and the portion (expressed in whole percentage increments) of the deferrals for such Plan Year that are to be deemed to be invested in each such Investment Fund, and shall continue in effect until revoked or changed as permitted by the Plan Administrator. 
  Section 4.3      Distribution Elections  .   
  (a)    Participants shall make their distribution elections in accordance with the Distribution Election Form or by other means provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Distribution Election ).  Each Distribution Election (the  Initial Election ) shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan Year and must be made by the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to   Section 4.4  , at which time the Initial Election shall be irrevocable, subject to   Section 4.3(c)  . 
  (b)    On the Distribution Election Form: 
  (i)      Mandatory Retirement Election  .  In all cases, the Participant shall select the method of payment from among the methods of payment described in   Section 8.3(a)   to apply in the event payment is made upon Retirement pursuant to this Distribution Election in accordance with   Section 8.3   or   8.4   or upon Disability in accordance with   Section 8.7  . 
  
   7 

(ii)      Optional In-Service Distribution Election  .  The Participant shall also have the option to elect that the Eligible Compensation being deferred for that Plan Year shall be paid to the Participant while he or she is still employed by an Employer (an  In-Service Distribution ).  If the Participant elects to receive an In-Service Distribution of the Eligible Compensation being deferred, then the Participant shall also select the year in which the payments are to be made.  A Participant may not elect to receive an In-Service Distribution in a Plan Year that is less than two (2) years after the end of the Plan Year in which the Eligible Compensation is earned. 
  (c)    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in   Section 4.3  , a Participant may change the form of distribution or his or her Distribution Election (a  Subsequent Election ) to the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator and Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), including the requirements that such Subsequent Election: 
  (i)    shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the Subsequent Election is filed with the Plan Administrator; 
  (ii)    shall result in the first distribution subject to such Subsequent Election being made at least five years after the date such distribution would otherwise have been paid pursuant to the previous election; and 
  (iii)    shall be filed with the Plan Administrator at least 12 months before the date the first scheduled distribution is to be paid pursuant to the previous election. 
  Section 4.4      Deadline for Submitting Election Forms  .  The Plan Administrator may set a deadline or deadlines for the receipt of the election forms required under the Plan; provided, however, that, except as provided in   Section 3.1(b)  , such forms must be filed on or before the end of the year immediately preceding the Plan Year for which it is to be effective. 
     ARTICLE V 
  EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS 
  Section 5.1      Employer Contributions  .  Each Participant who makes a Deferral Election will be credited with an Employer Contribution equal to 5% of the Participant s Matching DCP Deferral.  The Plan Administrator may, however, in his or her discretion, otherwise set the amount of the Employer Contribution, subject to and not in excess of applicable limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. 
  Section 5.2      Allocation of Employer Contributions  .  A Participant s Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be allocated among the same Investment Funds and in the same proportion as the Participant has elected for his or her deferrals for that Plan Year. 
  Section 5.3      Distribution of Employer Contributions  .  An Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her deferrals for that same Plan Year. 
  ARTICLE VI     MAINTENANCE AND CREDITING OF ACCOUNTS 
  Section 6.1      Maintenance of Accounts  .  
  (a)    The Plan shall maintain a separate Account for each Deferral Election (a  Deferral Account ) made by a Participant and each Employer Contribution (an  Employer Contribution Account ) made for a Participant.  A Participant s Accounts shall reflect the Participant s Investment Fund Elections and Distribution Elections made pursuant to   Article IV  , any Employer Contributions made on behalf of the Participant pursuant to   Article V  , adjustments to the Account made pursuant to this   Article VI  , and distributions made with respect to the Account pursuant to   Article VIII  .  The Accounts shall be used solely as a device for the measurement and  
  
   8 

determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participants pursuant to this Plan and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind. 
  (b)    Each Account shall be divided into separate subaccounts ( Investment Fund Subaccounts ), each of which corresponds to the Investment Fund selected by the Participant pursuant to   Section 4.2(b)  . 
  Section 6.2      Crediting of Accounts  .  
  (a)    No later than five (5) business days following the end of each pay period, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect amounts deferred from the Participant s Eligible Compensation during that pay period and the Investment Fund Election made by the Participant with respect to that Eligible Compensation. 
  (b)    At the end of each Plan Year, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect any Employer Contribution deemed to have been made on behalf of the Participant for that Plan Year and the allocation of that contribution among the Investment Funds pursuant to   Section 4.2  . 
  (c)    The Plan Administrator shall adjust each Investment Fund Subaccount to reflect any transfers under the Plan to or from that Investment Fund Subaccount, as of the end of each business day to reflect any distributions under the Plan made with respect to that Investment Fund Subaccount, and the Rate of Return on the related Investment Fund. 
  Section 6.3      Statement of Accounts  .  Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Account(s) in such form as the Plan Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.  
  ARTICLE VII      VESTING AND FORFEITURES 
  Section 7.1      Deferral Accounts  .  A Participant s Deferral Accounts shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable at all times. 
  Section 7.2      Employer Contribution Account  . 
  (a)    For a Participant employed by an Employer other than Pharmacyclics LLC: 
  (i)    The Participant s Employer Contribution Account shall become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable when matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant under the AbbVie Savings Plan become (or would become, if matching contributions are not made) one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable. 
  (ii)    If the Participant s employment with the Employers terminates (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before the matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant under the AbbVie Savings Plan become (or would become, if matching contributions are not made) one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable, then the Participant shall forfeit his or her Employer Contribution Account. 
  (b)    For a Participant employed by Pharmacyclics LLC: 
  (i)    The Participant s Employer Contribution Account shall become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable when the Participant completes two (2) Years of Credited Service, as defined in the AbbVie Savings Plan.  For purposes of this Section 7.2(b) and the determination of Years of Credited Service, a Participant will receive credit for service he or she completes with Pharmacyclics LLC (including its predecessor, Pharmacyclics, Inc., and its subsidiaries earned prior to the date of acquisition  
  
   9 

by the Company, provided that the Participant was employed by Pharmacyclics, Inc. or its subsidiary on May 26, 2015). 
  (ii)    If the Participant s employment with the Employers terminates (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before his or her Employer Contribution Account becomes one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable as described in paragraph (b)(i) above, then the Participant shall forfeit his or her Employer Contribution Account. 
    
  ARTICLE VIII      DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS 
  Section 8.1      Distribution of Benefits in the Event of a Termination of Employment  .  If a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment (other than due to Retirement) prior to receiving that In-Service Distribution, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment.  If a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits upon Retirement, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment prior to the date the Participant attains eligibility for Retirement, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment. 
  Section 8.2      In-Service Distributions  .  Subject to the provisions of   Section 8.6  , the Company shall pay In-Service Distributions in a lump-sum to the Participant on the first business day in February of the year designated by the Participant on his or her Distribution Election Form. 
  Section 8.3      Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Retirement  .  
  (a)    If, pursuant to   Section 4.3  , a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits for a Plan Year upon his or her Retirement, then the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next following the date of the Participant s Retirement in any of the following forms pursuant to the Participant s Initial Election or Subsequent Election, as applicable: 
  (i)    in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over fifteen (15) years; or 
  (ii)    in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over ten (10) years; or 
  (iii)    in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over five (5) years; or 
  (iv)    in a lump sum; or 
  (v)    if no such election is on file with the Plan Administrator, in substantially equal quarterly installments to the Participant over ten (10) years. 
  Quarterly installments shall be paid on the first business day of each calendar quarter and annual installments shall be paid on the first business day of each calendar year. 
  (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of   Section 8.3(a)  , in the event that, as of the date of the Participant s Retirement, the Participant s benefits under the Plan do not exceed, in the aggregate, $15,500, the Participant s benefits shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum. 
  
   10 

Section 8.4      Distribution of Benefits on the Earlier to Occur of a Participant s Retirement or a Specified Date  . 
  If a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits on a specified date pursuant to   Section 4.3(b)(ii)  , if the Participant s Retirement occurs prior to such specified date, 
  (a)    For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, the Company shall pay the Transferred Participant or the Post-Distribution Participant his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum on the first business day in February next following the Participant s Retirement; and 
  (b)    For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, and for amounts deferred for a Participant hired by an Employer on or after the Effective Date of the Plan, the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits in accordance with   Section 8.3(a)  , subject to   Section 8.3(b)  . 
  Section 8.5      Distributions Due to Unforeseeable Emergency  . 
  (a)    A Participant may receive the early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency (a  Hardship Distribution ) subject to the following restrictions: 
  (i)    The Participant has requested the Hardship Distribution from the Plan Administrator on a form provided by or in the format requested by the Plan Administrator; 
  (ii)    The Plan Administrator has determined that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred; 
  (iii)    The Plan Administrator determines the amount of the Hardship Distribution, which amount will be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need (including any amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, local or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the Hardship Distribution); and 
  (iv)    The Hardship Distribution shall be distributed in a lump sum within 30 days following determination by the Plan Administrator of the amount of the Hardship Distribution.  
  (b)    The circumstances that would constitute a Unforeseeable Emergency will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a Hardship Distribution may not be made to the extent that such hardship may be relieved through (i) reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent that liquidation of the Participant s assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this Plan in compliance with Code Section 409A.  
  Section 8.6      Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Death  .  In the event of a Participant s death prior to the complete distribution of his or her Accounts, the Company shall distribute his or her total Plan benefits to his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum within 90 days after the date of the Participant s death. 
  Section 8.7      Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Disability  .  In the event of a Participant s Disability, the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next following the date of the Participant s Disability in the form set forth below: 
  (a)    For any Participant who has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits upon Retirement, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms permitted under   Section 8.3(a)  , subject to   Section 8.3(b)  . 
  (b)    For a Participant who has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, if the Participant s Disability occurs prior to the date specified in such Distribution Election: 
  
   11 

(i)    For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning on or subsequent to January 1, 2008, or for amounts deferred for a Participant hired by an Employer on or after the Effective Date of the Plan, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms permitted under   Section 8.3(a)  , subject to   Section 8.3(b)  . 
  (ii)    For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to all Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum under   Section 4.3(b)(ii)  . 
  Section 8.8      Postponing or Amending Distributions  .  A Participant may postpone a scheduled distribution or amend the form of distribution specified in   Section 8.2,     Section 8.3(a)   or   Section 8.4   only by making a Subsequent Election pursuant to the terms of   Section 4.3(c)  . 
  Section 8.9      Distribution of Benefits Pursuant to a Domestic Relations Order  .  The Company shall pay all or a portion of a Participant s Plan benefits in a lump sum to any person other than the Participant pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order.  For this purpose, a domestic relations order means a judgment, decree or order (including approval of a property settlement agreement) which relates to the provision of child support, alimony payments, or marital property rights to a spouse, former spouse, child or other dependent of the Participant and which is made pursuant to a state domestic relations law (including a community property law). 
  ARTICLE IX     BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION 
  Section 9.1      Beneficiary Designation  .  Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a designation with the Plan Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish from time to time.  
  Section 9.2      Failure to Designate a Beneficiary  .  If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participant s Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:  
           (a) 
    to the spouse of such person, if any; or   
              (b) 
    to the deceased person s estate.  
     Section 9.3      Facility of Payment  .  When, in the Plan Administrator s opinion, a Participant or Beneficiary is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may make any benefit payments to the Participant or Beneficiary s legal representative, or spouse, or the Plan Administrator may apply the payment for the benefit of the Participant or Beneficiary in any way the Plan Administrator considers advisable, in each case, without subjecting the Participant or Beneficiary to accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A. 
  ARTICLE X      ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN 
  Section 10.1      Plan Administrator  .  The Board of Review, or such person as the Board of Review shall designate pursuant to   Section 10.3  ,     shall serve as the Plan Administrator of the Plan. The administration of the Plan shall be under the supervision of the Plan Administrator. It shall be a principal duty of the Plan Administrator to see that the Plan is carried out, in accordance with its terms, for the exclusive benefit of persons entitled to participate in the Plan without discrimination     among them. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Plan Administrator decides, in his or her discretion, that the applicant is entitled to them. The Plan Administrator will have full power to administer the Plan in all of its details, subject to applicable requirements of law. For this purpose, the Plan  
  
   12 

Administrator s powers will include but will not be limited to, the following authority, in addition to all other powers provided by this Plan: 
           (a) 
    To make and enforce such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or proper for the efficient administration of the Plan, including the establishment of any claims procedures that may be required by applicable provisions of law; 
              (b) 
    To exercise discretion in interpreting the Plan, any interpretation to be reviewed under the arbitrary and capricious standard;  
              (c) 
    To exercise discretion in deciding all questions concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any person to participate in the Plan; such decision to be reviewed under the arbitrary and capricious standard; 
              (d) 
    To appoint such agents, counsel, accountants, consultants and other persons as may be required to assist in administering the Plan; 
              (e) 
    To allocate and delegate its responsibilities under the Plan and to designate other persons to carry out any of its responsibilities under the Plan, any such allocations, delegation or designation to be in writing; 
              (f) 
    To determine the amount and type of benefits to which any Participant or Beneficiary shall be entitled hereunder, including the method and date for all valuations under the Plan; 
              (g) 
    To receive from the Employers and from Participants such information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan or any of its programs; 
              (h) 
    To maintain or cause to be maintained all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan; 
              (i) 
    To receive, review and keep on file (as it deems convenient and proper) reports of benefit payments made by the Plan; 
              (j) 
    To determine and allocate among the Employers the liability to the Company associated with Plan benefits in accordance with   Section 1.3   and to determine the time at which and manner in which that liability shall be paid to the Company; 
              (k) 
    To make, or cause to be made, equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of the Plan; and 
              (l) 
    To do all other acts which the Plan Administrator deems necessary or proper to accomplish and implement its responsibilities under the Plan. 
     Section 10.2      Reliance on Tables, etc  .  In administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator will be entitled to the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively on all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by, or in accordance with the instructions of accountants, counsel, or other experts employed or engaged by the Plan Administrator. 
  Section 10.3      Delegation  .  The Board of Review shall have the authority to appoint another corporation or one or more other persons to serve as the Plan Administrator hereunder, in which event such corporation or person(s) shall exercise all of the powers, duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the Plan Administrator hereunder. 
  
   13 

Section 10.4      Operations  .  The day to day operation of the Plan will be handled by the person(s) designated by the Plan Administrator.  
  Section 10.5      Uniform Rules  .  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis and shall apply uniform rules to all similarly situated Participants. 
  Section 10.6      Plan Administrator s Decisions Final  .  Any interpretation of the provisions of the Plan (including, but not limited to, the provisions of any of its programs) and any decision on any matter within the discretion of the Plan Administrator made by the Plan Administrator in good faith shall be binding on all persons. A misstatement or other mistake of fact shall be corrected when it becomes known and the Plan Administrator shall make such adjustment on account thereof as it considers equitable and practicable. Neither the Plan Administrator nor any Employer shall be liable in any manner for any determination of fact made in good faith. 
  ARTICLE XI     CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS 
  Section 11.1      Claims and Review Procedures  .  The Plan Administrator shall adopt procedures for the filing and review of claims in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA.  
  ARTICLE XII      AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 
  Section 12.1      Amendment  .  The Company may amend this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Account as accrued at the time of such amendment.  Any amendment which would allow officers of the Company to participate in the Plan shall require the approval of the AbbVie Inc. Board of Directors.  Any amendment which increases the total cost of the Plan to the Employers in excess of $250,000 in each of the three full calendar years next following the date of the amendment shall be approved by the Board of Review.  The Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Company (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) shall approve all other amendments to the Plan and the extension of the Plan to any division or Subsidiary of the Company. 
  Section 12.2      Termination  .  The Board of Review may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Deferral Elections.  The Board of Review may also terminate and liquidate the Plan in its entirety; provided that such termination and liquidation are consistent with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  Upon any such termination, the Company shall pay to the Participant the benefits the Participant is entitled to receive under the Plan, determined as of the termination date, in compliance with Code Section 409A. 
  ARTICLE XIII      MISCELLANEOUS 
  Section 13.1      Unfunded Plan  .  This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  All payments pursuant to the Plan shall be made from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment. No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of the Company as a result of participating in the Plan.  
  Section 13.2      Nonassignability  .  Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate  
  
   14 

maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency.  
  Section 13.3      Validity and Severability  .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  
  Section 13.4      Governing Law  .  The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.  
  Section 13.5      Employment Status  .  This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or the Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of the Company or change the status of the Participant s employment or the policies of the Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment. 
  Section 13.6      Underlying Compensation and Incentive Plans and Programs  .  Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Eligible Bonuses or Eligible Compensation are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.  
  Section 13.7      Successors of the Company  .  The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company.  
  Section 13.8      Waiver of Breach  .  The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.  
  Section 13.9      Notice  .  Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Plan Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark. 
  Section 13.10      Waiver of Notice  .  Any notice required under the Plan may be waived by the person entitled to such notice. 
  Section 13.11      Evidence  .  Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties. 
  Section 13.12      Additional Employers  .  Subject to the consent of the Board of Review, any Subsidiary of the Company may adopt the Plan by filing a written instrument to that effect with the Company. 
  Section 13.13      Section 409A  .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to the Plan     during the six-month period immediately following the Participant s Termination of Employment or Retirement shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Participant s Termination of Employment or Retirement (or upon the Participant s death, if earlier), plus, to the extent subject to a six-month delay, a return equal to the Rate of Return that would be achieved if such amounts were invested in accordance with the Participant s Investment Elections  
  
   15 

under   Section 4.2   from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment. 

16 

SUPPLEMENT A 
    
  TRANSFER OF LIABILITIES FROM THE 
  ABBOTT LABORATORIES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
    
  A-1.      Purpose and Effect  .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Abbott DCP ) to this Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the EMA. 
  A-2.      Eligibility, Service and Compensation  .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in this Plan to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting and eligibility for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott DCP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott DCP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the this Plan to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott DCP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under this Plan as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries. 
  A-3.      Matching DCP Deferral  .  For purposes of determining a Transferred Participant s or a Post-Distribution Participant s Matching DCP Deferrals for the Plan Year in which such participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, such participant s deferrals and Base Compensation under the Plan shall be prorated. 
  A-4.      Employer Contributions  .  For purposes of determining the Employer Contribution under   Section 5.1   for the Plan Year in which a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, such participant s Matching DCP Deferrals made under the Abbott DCP shall not be taken into account. 
  A-5.      Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott DCP  .  As soon as practicable after the Separation Date, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Transferred Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott DCP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Transferred Employee s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date, plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon. 
  A-6.      Deferral and Distribution Elections.    The Plan shall recognize, implement and honor all deferral and distribution elections made by each Transferred Participant under the Abbott DCP (including, but not limited to, any election to defer any bonus earned during 2012 but paid in 2013).   
  A-7.      Subsequent Transfers  .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Post-Distribution Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott DCP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Post-Distribution Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date, plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
  A-8.      Deferral and Distribution Elections   Post-Distribution Participants  .  Post-Distribution Participants are required to make new elections under the Plan upon hire or transfer to AbbVie or its subsidiaries in accordance with   Section 3.1(b)  .  Distribution elections made under the Abbott DCP with respect to transferred amounts described in A-7 above shall be recognized, implemented and honored by the Plan and such amounts shall be immediately distributable to such Post-Distribution Participants in accordance with such elections.  Distribution  
  
   1 

elections with respect to amounts deferred under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be in accordance with   Section 4.3   and other applicable provisions of this Plan. 
  A-9.      Use of Terms  .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern. 

2 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 abbv-20161231xex107.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.7

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.7 

ABBVIE SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN 
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2016) 

ABBVIE 
  SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN 
  SECTION 1 INTRODUCTION 
  1-1.    The Board of Directors of AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) adopted this AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  or  Plan ) effective as of January 1, 2013.  The Plan provides for payment of (a) pension benefits calculated under the AbbVie Pension Plan (the  Pension Plan ) in excess of those which may be paid under that plan under the limits imposed by Section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the  Code ), and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended ( ERISA ), and (b) the additional pension benefits that would be payable under the Pension Plan if deferred awards under certain AbbVie non-qualified deferred compensation plans were included in  final earnings  as defined in the Pension Plan.  The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2016. 
  1-2.    The Supplemental Plan shall apply to employees of AbbVie and its subsidiaries and affiliates existing as of the date of adoption of the Supplemental Plan or thereafter created or acquired.  AbbVie and each of such subsidiaries and affiliates are hereinafter referred to as an  employer  and collectively as the  employers.  
  1-3.    All benefits provided under the Supplemental Plan shall be provided from the general assets of the employers and not from any trust fund or other designated asset.  All participants in the Supplemental Plan shall be general creditors of the employers with no priority over other creditors. 
  1-4.    The Supplemental Plan shall be administered by the AbbVie Employee Benefit Board of Review appointed and acting under the Pension Plan (the  Board of Review ).  Except as stated below, the Board of Review shall perform all powers and duties with respect to the Supplemental Plan, including the power to direct payment of benefits, allocate costs among employers, adopt amendments and determine questions of interpretation.  The Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board of Directors ) shall have the sole authority to terminate the Supplemental Plan. 
  1-5.    As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants. 
  SECTION 2  ERISA PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT 
  2-1.    The benefits described in this Section 2 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire, or terminate with a vested pension, under that plan on or after January 1, 2013. 
  2-2.    Each Pension Plan participant whose retirement or vested pension under that plan would otherwise be limited by Code Section 415 shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount which, when added to his or her Pension Plan benefit (calculated as if such benefit had been payable based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4), will equal the amount the participant would be entitled to under the Pension Plan as in effect from time to time, calculated as if such benefit had been payable based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, without regard to the limitations imposed by Code Section 415. 

1 

SECTION 3  1986 TAX REFORM ACT SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT 
  3-1.    The benefits described in this Section 3 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire or terminate on or after January 1, 2013 with a vested pension under that plan. 
  3-2.    Each Pension Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows: 
  (a)    The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between: 
  (i)  the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2; and 
  (ii)  the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) if the participant s  final earnings,  as defined in the Pension Plan, had included compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17), and any  pre-tax contributions  made by the participant under the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan. 
  SECTION 4  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT 
  4-1.    The benefits described in this Section 4 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire or terminate on or after January 1, 2013 with a vested pension under that plan, and who made a Deferral Election under the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ) with respect to any calendar month during the one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months immediately preceding retirement or termination of employment. 
  4-2.    Each Pension Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows: 
  (a)    The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between: 
  (i)  the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2 and Section 3; and 
  (ii)  the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) if the participant s  base earnings,  as defined in the Pension Plan, included deferrals made under the Deferred Compensation Plan and any compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17). 

2 

SECTION 5  DEFERRED MIP PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT 
  5-1.    The benefits described in this Section 5 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire or terminate on or after January 1, 2013 with a vested pension under that plan and who received Management Incentive Plan awards for any calendar year during the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or termination of employment. 
  5-2.    Each Pension Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows: 
  (a)    The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between: 
  (i)  the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2, Section 3, and Section 4; and 
  (ii)  the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) if the participant s  final earnings,  as defined in the Pension Plan, were one-sixtieth of the sum of: 
  A.  the participant s total  basic earnings  (excluding any payments under the Management Incentive Plan, any division incentive plan or any comparable incentive plan) received in the sixty consecutive calendar months for which his or her basic earnings (excluding any payments under the Management Incentive Plan, any division incentive plan or any comparable incentive plan) were highest; and 
  B.  the amount of the participant s total awards under the Management Incentive Plan, any division incentive plan and any comparable incentive plan (whether paid immediately or deferred) made for the five consecutive calendar years during the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or termination for which such amount is the greatest and (for participants granted Management Incentive Plan awards for less than five consecutive calendar years during such ten year period) which include all Management Incentive Plan awards granted for consecutive calendar years within such ten year period. 
  (b)    That portion of any Management Incentive Plan award which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of AbbVie ( Committee ) has determined shall be excluded from the participant s  basic earnings  shall be excluded from the calculation of  final earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2.   Final earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2 shall include any compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17). 
  (c)    In the event the period described in subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B) is the final five calendar years of employment and a Management Incentive Plan award is made to the participant subsequent to retirement for the participant s final calendar year of employment, the supplemental pension shall be adjusted by adding such new award and subtracting a portion of the earliest Management Incentive Plan award included in the calculation, from the amount determined under subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B).  The portion subtracted shall be equal to that portion of the participant s final calendar year of employment during which the participant was employed by AbbVie.   
  
   3 

SECTION 6 CORPORATE OFFICER PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT 
  6-1.    The benefits described in this Section 6 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who are corporate officers of AbbVie as of January 1, 2013 or who become corporate officers thereafter, and who retire or terminate with a vested pension under that plan on or after January 1, 2013.  The term  corporate officer  for purposes of this Supplemental Plan shall mean an individual elected an officer of AbbVie by its Board of Directors (or designated as such for purposes of this Section 6 by the Compensation Committee), but shall not include assistant secretaries, assistant treasurers or other assistant officers. 
  6-2.    Subject to the limitations and adjustments described below, each participant described in subsection 6-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan commencing on the date determined in accordance with subsection 8-2 and payable as a life annuity, equal to 6/10 of 1 percent (.006) of the participant s final earnings (as determined under subsection 5-2) for each of the first twenty years of the participant s benefit service (as defined in the Pension Plan) occurring after the participant s attainment of age 35. 
  6-3.    In no event shall the sum of (a) the participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under subsection 6-2 and (b) the participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under subsection 5.1 of the Pension Plan, excluding 5.1(a)(ii)(B), exceed the maximum aggregate percentage of final earnings allowed under subsection 5.1 (also excluding 5.1(a)(ii)(B)) of the Pension Plan (without regard to any limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code), as in effect on the date of the participant s retirement or termination.  In the event the limitation described in this subsection 6-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s aggregate percentage calculated under subsection 6-2 shall be reduced until the limit is not exceeded. 
  6-4.    Benefit service occurring between the date a participant ceases to be a corporate officer of AbbVie and the date the participant again becomes a corporate officer of AbbVie shall be disregarded in calculating the participant s aggregate percentage under subsection 6-2. 
  6-5.    Any supplemental pension otherwise due a participant under this Section 6 shall be reduced by the amount (if any) by which: 
  (a)    the hypothetical benefits that would be payable to such participant under the Pension Plan, based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, and this Supplemental Plan exceeds 
  (b)    the hypothetical maximum benefit that would be payable to the participant under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) based on the participant s final earnings (as determined under subsection 5-2), if the participant had accrued the maximum benefit service recognized by the Pension Plan. 
  6-6.    Any supplemental pension due a participant under this Section 6 shall be actuarially adjusted as provided in the Pension Plan to reflect the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 and the participant s age at commencement of the pension as provided in Section 7. 
  SECTION 7  CORPORATE OFFICER PENSION PLAN  SUPPLEMENTAL EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT 
  7-1.    The benefits described in this Section 7 shall apply to all persons described in subsection 6-1. 
  7-2.    The supplemental pension due under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall be reduced in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5-3 and 5-6 of the Pension Plan for each month by which its commencement date precedes the last day of the month in which the participant  
  
   4 

will attain age 60.  No reduction will be made for the period between the last day of the months in which the participant will attain age 60 and age 62. 
  7-3.    Each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan equal to any hypothetical reduction made in such participant s Pension Plan pension in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5.3 and 5.6 of the Pension Plan for the period between the last day of the months in which the participant will attain age 60 and age 62, calculated as if the participant had commenced receipt of the participant s Pension Plan benefit on the same date on which the participant commences receipt of the participant s supplemental pension based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4. 
  SECTION 8  MISCELLANEOUS 
  8-1.    For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, the term  Management Incentive Plan  shall mean the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan, the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Managerial Incentive Plan, and any successor or alternative to any of those plans. 
  8-2.    The monthly vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall commence to be paid to the participant or his or her beneficiary on the last day of the month following the month in which: 
  (a)    For any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant (both as defined in Supplement A) who has an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 50 and the date such participant s employment is terminated; or 
  (b)    For any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant (both as defined in Supplement A) who does not have an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan and any participant who does not fall into the preceding categories hired by AbbVie on or after January 1, 2013, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 55 and the date such participant s employment is terminated. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection 8-2, any participant eligible to make an election under Section 9 may make such election with respect to any accruals for services performed in the year following the year such election is made. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection 8-2, in the event that the present value of participant s supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 does not exceed in the aggregate $25,000 as of the commencement date of the pension payable to such participant or his or her beneficiary, and payment of such supplemental pension has not been previously made under Section 9, the present value of such supplemental pension shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum on such commencement date. 
  8-3.    Except as otherwise specifically provided, payment of the monthly vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 shall be made to a participant as follows: 
  (a)      Life Annuity  .  A participant who is not legally married on the date as of which such payments commence shall receive a monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit in accordance with the plan payable on a life annuity basis, with the last payment to be made for the month in which his or her death occurs. 
  (b)      50% Joint and Survivor Annuity  .  A participant who is legally married on the date as of which such payments commence shall receive a 50% joint and survivor annuity which is actuarially equivalent to the amount of monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit otherwise  
  
   5 

payable to him or her in accordance with the plan on a life annuity basis. Such joint and survivor annuity shall consist of a reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit continuing during the participant s lifetime, and if the participant s spouse is living at the date of the participant s death, payment of one-half of such reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit to such spouse until the spouse s death occurs, with the last payment to be made for the month of the death of the last to die of the participant and his or her spouse. The joint and survivor annuity payable hereunder to or with respect to a participant who retires on a late retirement date shall be computed as if such participant had retired on his or her normal retirement date using for the age of his or her spouse as of his or her late retirement date, that spouse s age as of his or her normal retirement date. 
  8-4.    In lieu of the form and amount of supplemental pension benefit specified in subsection 8-3, a participant may elect, prior to commencement, a supplemental pension benefit which is actuarially equivalent to the form of payment specified in subsection 8-3(a), in the annuity forms permitted by the Board of Review, provided that the scheduled date for the first annuity payment is not changed as a result of such election.  For purposes of this provision, the term  actuarially equivalent  shall have the meaning provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(A), applying reasonable actuarial methods and assumptions, which must be the same for each annuity payment option and otherwise comply with the rules provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D). 
  An election under this subsection 8-4 must be in writing, signed by the participant, and filed with the Board of Review at such time and in such manner as the Board of Review shall determine; and will be effective only if the participant s spouse, if any, consents to the election in writing, and such consent acknowledges the effect of the election and is witnessed by a plan representative or a notary public. In any case where a participant elects an optional form of benefit, the option shall be designed so that more than 50 percent of the actuarial reserve required to provide the participant s monthly vested supplemental pension benefit in the normal form will be applied to provide the participant s benefits under the option during the period of the participant s life expectancy. Payment of an optional form of benefit will commence no later than the date on which the participant s monthly supplemental pension benefit would otherwise commence. An election under this subsection 8-4 may not be changed after payment of the participant s supplemental pension benefit has commenced. 
  8-5.    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, if a participant terminates employment within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the present value of his or her supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 (but excluding any amounts with respect to which an election under Section 9 has been made, whether or not then payable or vested) shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum, calculated using reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods, within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment; provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5).  The supplemental pension under Section 2 shall be computed using as the applicable limit under Code Section 415, such limit as is in effect on the termination date and based on the assumption that the participant will receive his or her supplemental pension in the form of a straight life annuity with no ancillary benefits.  The present values of the supplemental pensions under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be computed as of the date of payment using an interest rate equal to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation interest rate applicable to an immediate annuity, as in effect on the date of payment. 
  8-6.    For purposes of subsection 8-5, a  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates: 
  (a)    the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or 
  
   6 

(b)    the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by AbbVie s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or 
  (c)    the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or 
  (d)    the date the shareholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of AbbVie, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions. 
  For purposes of this Supplemental Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie. 
  8-7.    POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control): 
  
   7 

(a)    AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements. 
  (b)    Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated. 
  (c)    Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates). 
  (d)    The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist. 
  8-8.    The provisions of subsections 8-5, 8-6, 8-7 and this subsection 8-8 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, (a) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (b) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control. 
  8-9.    All benefits due under this Supplemental Plan shall be paid by AbbVie and AbbVie shall be reimbursed for such payments by the employee s employer.  In the event the employee is employed by more than one employer, each employer shall reimburse AbbVie in proportion to the period of time the employee was employed by such employer, as determined by the Board of Review in its sole discretion. 
  8-10.    The benefits under the Supplemental Plan are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of the persons entitled to benefits and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. 
  8-11.    Nothing contained in this Supplemental Plan shall confer on any employee the right to be retained in the employ of AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. 
  8-12.    Upon adoption of this Supplemental Plan, the prior resolutions shall be deemed rescinded. 
  8-13.    A participant shall not become vested in the participant s supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 until the participant has attained sixty (60) months of vesting service.  For purposes of the Supplemental Plan, a participant shall be entitled to 1/12   th    of a year of vesting service for each calendar month (or portion thereof) during which the participant is employed by an employer.  The payments required by Section 8 or Section 9 of the Supplemental Plan shall, in each case, relate only to the vested portion of a participant s supplemental pension. 
  8-14.    To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Supplemental Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Supplemental Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Supplemental Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment with AbbVie or any employer hereunder for purposes of the Supplemental Plan and no payments shall be due under Supplemental Plan which are payable upon the  
  
   8 

participant s termination of employment unless the participant would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from AbbVie within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  To the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to the Supplemental Plan during the six-month period immediately following the participant s termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the participant s termination of employment (or upon the participant s death, if earlier), plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the applicable  Federal short-term rate  (as defined in Code Section 1274(d)) for the month in which such termination of employment occurs (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 9-8), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  With respect to expenses eligible for reimbursement under the terms of the Supplemental Plan, (a) the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (b) any reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement does not provide for a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
  8-15.    In accordance with Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the AbbVie Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) or his or her delegate, provided that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order. 
  SECTION 9  ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAL PENSIONS 
  The provisions of this Section 9 shall apply only to corporate officers who became Plan participants before January 1, 2015.  
  9-1.    A participant who is actively employed by AbbVie as a corporate officer as of December 31 of his or her first year as a corporate officer shall be entitled to receive payment of the present value of the vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 which accrues with respect to the year and shall elect to receive such payment by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of a portion of such present value in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant, determined to be substantially similar to the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A, and current payment of the balance of such present value in cash paid directly to or withheld on behalf of the participant equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes owed with respect to the gross payment (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-10). The payment of any amount provided under this subsection 9-1 shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued. 
  9-2.    For each year subsequent to the year in which a participant becomes a corporate officer, if the present value of a participant s vested and accrued supplemental pension has been paid to the participant (including amounts paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsection 9-1 then, with respect to each subsequent year of active participation, as of that December 31, a participant shall be entitled to a payment in an amount equal to (i) the present value (as of that December 31) of the participant s vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, less (ii) the current value (as of that December 31) of the payments previously made to the participant under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 (if any).  Each year a participant who is a corporate officer may elect to receive payment of the amounts described in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above for the year by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of such amount in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant (less  
  
   9 

the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes paid to or withheld on behalf of the participant (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-10)).  The payment of any amount provided under this subsection 9-2 shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  No payments shall be made under this subsection 9-2 as of any December 31 after the calendar year in which the participant retires or otherwise terminates employment with AbbVie. 
  9-3.    Present values for the purposes of subsections 9-1 and 9-2 shall be determined using reasonable actuarial assumptions specified for this purpose by AbbVie and consistently applied in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  The  current value  of the payments previously made to a participant under subsection 9-2 means the aggregate amount of such payments, with interest thereon (at the rate specified in subsection 9-7).     
  9-4.    AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to subsection 9-8.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with subsection 9-10. 
  9-5.    Except as provided in subsection 9-9, a participant shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived and shall be foreclosed from any right to receive any supplemental pension benefits on that portion of the supplemental pension that the participant elects to be paid in cash under subsection 9-1 or 9-2.  A participant who has elected to receive a payment under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to a Grantor Trust must establish such trust in a form which AbbVie determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached to this Supplemental Plan as Exhibit A.  If a participant fails to make an election under subsection 9-1 or 9-2, or if a participant makes an election under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to receive payment in a Grantor Trust but fails to establish a Grantor Trust, then payment shall be made in cash directly to the participant.   
  9-6.    AbbVie will establish and maintain a separate Supplemental Pension Account in the name of each participant, a separate After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account in the name of each participant, and a separate Tax Payment Account in the name of each participant.  The Supplemental Pension Account shall reflect any amounts:  (a) paid to, or withheld on behalf of, a participant to satisfy the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including amounts paid to a participant s Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and (b) disbursed to a participant for supplemental pension benefits (or which would have been disbursed to a participant if the participant had not elected to receive a cash disbursement pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2).  The After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall also reflect such amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  The accounts established pursuant to this subsection 9-6 are for administrative convenience, and no trust relationship with respect to such accounts is intended or should be implied. 
  9-7.    As of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%) per year.  Any amount so credited shall be referred to as a participant s  Interest Accrual.   The calculation of the Interest Accrual shall be based on the balance of the payments made pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and any Interest Accrual thereon from previous years.  As of the end of each calendar year a participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest which shall be referred to as the After-Tax Interest Accrual.  The  After-Tax Interest Accrual  shall be an amount equal to the product of (a) the Interest Accrual credited to the participant s Supplemental Pension Account for such year multiplied by (b) one minus the aggregate of the federal, state, and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate (determined in accordance with subsection 9-10).  
  9-8.    In addition to any payment made to a participant for a calendar year pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2, a participant shall also be entitled to a payment (an  Interest Payment ) for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  For all participants who are Transferred Participants under Supplement A, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess of the gross amount of the participant s Interest Accrual (as defined in subsection 9-7), over the net income of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in  
  
   10 

Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 9-4.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest Accrual credited to the participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account for that year in accordance with subsection 9-7.  No payments shall be made under this subsection 9-8 for any year following the year in which the participant dies, retires or otherwise terminates employment with AbbVie. 
  9-9.    In addition to and notwithstanding the payments made to a participant s Grantor Trust under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and subject only to the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), AbbVie shall make the monthly vested supplemental pension payments that would have been payable to the participant had no payments been made to the participant s Grantor Trust under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in the form provided by subsection 8-3.  The monthly vested supplemental pension payments hereunder shall commence on the first business day of February following the sixth anniversary of the participant s termination of employment and ending with the month of the participant s (or surviving spouse s) death.  By way of example, (a) if a participant terminated employment on June 1, 2013, the commencement date would be the first business day in February, 2020, and (b) if a participant terminated employment on January 15, 2013, the commencement date would be the first business day in February, 2019.  Payments under this subsection 9-9 shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as AbbVie shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets.  Payment of the annuity required by this subsection 9-9 may be deferred by AbbVie in compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b).  Any election to defer payment hereunder shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the election is made; shall be made not less than 12 months before the annuity commencement date; and shall require payment to be deferred for a period of no less than five years from such annuity commencement date. 
  9-10.    For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Supplemental Plan is to be made; state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence in the calendar year for which such a calculation is to be made; and a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year for which such a calculation is to be made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax, attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Supplemental Plan, and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes. 
  9-11.    Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A. 
  9-12.    Notwithstanding anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, the Grantor Trusts established by the participants under the Supplemental Plan shall be funded in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A. 

11 

SUPPLEMENT A 
    
  SPECIAL RULES RELATED TO TRANSFER FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN 
    
  A-1.        Purpose and Effect  .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan (the  Abbott SERP ) to this Supplemental Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the Separation Agreement. 
  A-2.          Eligibility, Service and Compensation  .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in the AbbVie SERP to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott SERP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting, eligibility and benefit service for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott SERP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott SERP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the AbbVie SERP to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott SERP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under the AbbVie SERP as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries. 
  A-3.          Time and Form of Payment.    The accrued benefit of each Transferred Participant and each Post-Distribution Participant under the Abbott SERP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be payable under the AbbVie SERP at the time and in a form that would have been permitted under the Abbott SERP as in effect as of such Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), with employment by Abbott or its subsidiaries prior to the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) treated as employment by the AbbVie or its affiliates under the AbbVie SERP for purposes of determining eligibility for optional forms of benefit, early retirement benefits, or other benefit forms; and the AbbVie SERP shall assume and honor the terms of all arrangements relating to beneficiaries and alternate payees in effect and honored under the Abbott SERP as of the applicable Transfer Date with respect to Transferred Participants and Post Distribution Participants. 
  A-4.          Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott SERP  .  As soon as practicable after the Separation, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, the Plan shall assume all liabilities and the Abbott SERP shall transfer all liabilities for all obligations under the Abbott SERP for the benefits of Transferred Participants (and their beneficiaries and/or alternate payees) as determined on the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA). 
  A-5.          Subsequent Transfers  .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, the Plan shall assume all liabilities and the Abbott SERP shall transfer all liabilities for all obligations under the Abbott SERP for the benefits of Post-Distribution Participants (and their beneficiaries and/or alternate payees) as determined on the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA). 
  A-6.          Definitions.    For purposes of this Supplement A, the following terms are defined as follows: 
           (a) 
     Post-Distribution Participant  means: (i) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (A) was an employee of Abbott Laboratories or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and (B) had liabilities associated with his or her accrued benefits (including any accrued benefits with respect to beneficiaries or alternate payees) in the Abbott SERP transferred to this Plan in accordance with this Supplement A; and (ii) any other individual on whose behalf liabilities are  
     
   1 

transferred from an Abbott pension plan to the Pension Plan during the Transition Period (as described in the EMA). 
           (b) 
     Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee or an AbbVie LTD Participant (as defined in the EMA), excluding any Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie Inc. under the EMA on or immediately after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement). 
     A-7.          Grantor Trusts  .  Certain Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants who participated in the Abbott SERP have established grantor trusts in connection with such plan.  Abbott and AbbVie shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to facilitate the amendment of each such grantor trust to provide that (a) AbbVie is the administrator of such trust and (b) distribution of amounts under such trust is made by reference to termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries and not termination of employment with the Abbott and its subsidiaries. 
  A-8.          Use of Terms  .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern. 

EXHIBIT A 
  SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  GRANTOR TRUST 
    
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this                    day of                                                , 20          , by and between                                         (the  grantor ) and The Northern Trust Company, located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ), 
  WITNESSETH THAT: 
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
  ARTICLE I 
  INTRODUCTION 
  I-1  NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the  
                                                                     Supplemental Benefit Grantor Trust.  
    
  I-2  THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement. 
  I-3  STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly. 
  I-4  THE ADMINISTRATOR.  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  AbbVie will certify to  
  
   2 

the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification. 
  I-5  ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement. 
    ARTICLE II 
  DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND 
    
  II-1  SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION ACCOUNT.  The administrator shall maintain a  supplemental pension account  under the trust.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the account with all distributions made from the account during that year; and credit the account with its share of trust income and realized gains and charge the account with its share of trust expenses and realized losses for the year. 
  II-2  DISTRIBUTIONS PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the supplemental pension account to the grantor, if then living, in the same manner, at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor under AbbVie Pension Plan. 
  II-3  DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed upon the grantor s death.  The grantor may direct that such amounts be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust (a  Trust ) for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in the same manner, at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor s surviving spouse under the AbbVie Pension Plan.  If the grantor directs the same method of distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the AbbVie Pension Plan to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs the same method of distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the AbbVie Pension Plan to a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such Trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such Trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
  II-4  FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder. 
  II-5  PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living  
  
   1 

on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder. 
    ARTICLE III 
  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND 
  III-1  GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law: 
  (a)  Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides. 
  (b)  To invest and reinvest the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government and in any mutual funds, common trust funds or collective investment funds which invest solely in such obligations, provided that to the extent practicable no more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) shall be invested in such mutual funds, common trust funds or collective investment funds at any time; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability. 
  (c)  To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, in amounts not in excess of those reasonably necessary to make distributions from the trust. 
  (d)  To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security. 
  (e)  To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained. 
  (f)  To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction. 
  (g)  To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands. 
  (h)  To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights. 
  (i)  To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship. 
  (j)  To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind. 
  (k)  To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection. 
  
   2 

(l)  To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result. 
  (m)  Upon the prior written consent of the administrator, to appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument. 
  (n)  To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee. 
  (o)  To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action. 
  (p)  To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.   
  III-2    PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income. 
  III-3    STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period. 
  III-4    COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund. 
    ARTICLE IV 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
  IV-1  INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered. 
  IV-2  DISAGREEMENTS AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any court. 
  IV-3  TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or  
  
   3 

distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement; and the trustee shall not be liable for any action taken because of the specific direction of the administrator. 
  IV-4  GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee. 
  IV-5  WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice. 
  IV-6  CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created. 
  IV-7  SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors. 
    ARTICLE V 
  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE 
  V-1  RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor. 
  V-2  APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended). 
  V-3  DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account.  Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee. 
    ARTICLE VI 
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 
  VI-1  AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows: 
  
   4 

(a)  The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent. 
  (b)  This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable. 
  VI-2    TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II. 
  *     *     * 
  
   5 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written. 
      Grantor 
    
  The Northern Trust Company, as Trustee 
  By                
  Its                   

6 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 abbv-20161231xex121.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12.1 
    
  RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
    
  The following table sets forth AbbVie s historical ratios of earnings to fixed charges for the periods indicated. This information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 1,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   and Item 2,  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  This information should also be read in conjunction with AbbVie s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016  . For further information, see Exhibit 12.2 entitled  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges .  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.2>
 5
 abbv-20161231xex122.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.2

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12.2 

AbbVie Inc. 
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
  (unaudited) 

(a) Interest capitalized during the period is deducted because fixed charges include all interest, whether capitalized or expensed. Only fixed charges that were deducted from income were included in the earnings computation. 
    
  (b) AbbVie considers one-third of rent expense to be a reasonable approximation of the interest factor in its leases. 

</EX-12.2>

<EX-21>
 6
 abbv-20161231xex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

Domestic Subsidiaries 
      
    Incorporation 

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Bioresearch Center Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Biotech Ventures Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Biotherapeutics Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Endocrine Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Endocrinology Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Holdings Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Products LLC 
      
    Georgia 

AbbVie Purchasing LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Resources Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Resources International Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Respiratory LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Stemcentrx LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie US Holdings LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie US LLC 
      
    Delaware 

AbbVie Ventures LLC 
      
    Delaware 

Aeropharm Technology, LLC 
      
    Delaware 

BioDisplay Technologies, Inc. 
      
    Illinois 

Fremont Holding L.L.C. 
      
    Delaware 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

IEP Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC 
      
    Delaware 

Knoll Pharmaceutical Company 
      
    New Jersey 

KOS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

Life Properties Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

Organics L.L.C. 
      
    Delaware 

Pharmacyclics LLC 
      
    Delaware 

Rowell Laboratories, Inc. 
      
    Minnesota 

Sapphire Merger Sub, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

Unimed Pharmaceuticals, LLC 
      
    Delaware 

Vernal Holdings Inc. 
      
    Delaware 

Foreign Subsidiaries 
      
    Incorporation 

AbbVie S.A. 
      
    Argentina 

AbbVie Pty Ltd 
      
    Australia 

AbbVie GmbH 
      
    Austria 

AbbVie Bahamas Ltd. 
      
    Bahamas 

AbbVie SA 
      
    Belgium 

AbbVie Ltd 
      
    Bermuda 

AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd 
      
    Bermuda 

AbbVie Holdings Unlimited 
      
    Bermuda 

AbbVie d.o.o. 
      
    Bosnia 

AbbVie Farmac utica Ltda. 
      
    Brazil 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

AbbVie Participa  es Ltda. 
      
    Brazil 

AbbVie EOOD 
      
    Bulgaria 

AbbVie Corporation 
      
    Canada 

AbbVie Holdings Corporation 
      
    Canada 

Pharmacyclics Cayman Ltd. 
      
    Cayman Islands 

Stemcentrx Cayman Ltd. 
      
    Cayman Islands 

AbbVie Productos Farmac uticos Limitada 
      
    Chile 

AbbVie Pharmaceutical Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 

Pharmacyclics (Shanghai) Management Consulting Services Limited 
      
    China 

AbbVie S.A.S. 
      
    Colombia 

AbbVie d.o.o. 
      
    Croatia 

AbbVie Limited 
      
    Cyprus 

AbbVie s.r.o. 
      
    Czech Republic 

AbbVie A/S 
      
    Denmark 

AbbVie, S.R.L. 
      
    Dominican Republic 

AbbVie L.L.C. 
      
    Egypt 

AbbVie Oy 
      
    Finland 

AbbVie SAS 
      
    France 

AbbVie Holdings SAS 
      
    France 

Abbott Products GmbH 
      
    Germany 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

AbbVie Biotechnology GmbH 
      
    Germany 

AbbVie Deutschland GmbH   Co. KG 
      
    Germany 

AbbVie Komplement r GmbH 
      
    Germany 

AbbVie Real Estate Management GmbH 
      
    Germany 

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited 
      
    Gibraltar 

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Limited 
      
    Gibraltar 

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals Societe Anonyme 
      
    Greece 

AbbVie, S.A. 
      
    Guatemala 

AbbVie Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 

AbbVie Kft. 
      
    Hungary 

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals Private Limited 
      
    India 

AbbVie Ireland Holdings Limited 
      
    Ireland 

AbbVie Ireland Unlimited Company 
      
    Ireland 

AbbVie Limited 
      
    Ireland 

AbbVie Manufacturing Management Limited 
      
    Ireland 

Fournier Laboratories Ireland Ltd. 
      
    Ireland 

Pharmacyclics (Europe) Limited 
      
    Ireland 

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. 
      
    Israel 

AbbVie S.r.l. 
      
    Italy 

AbbVie GK 
      
    Japan 

AbbVie Holdings KK 
      
    Japan 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

AbbVie Ltd 
      
    Jersey 

AbbVie UK Biopharmaceuticals Ltd 
      
    Jersey 

AbbVie UK Ltd 
      
    Jersey 

AbbVie Ltd 
      
    Korea, South 

AbbVie SIA 
      
    Latvia 

AbbVie UAB 
      
    Lithuania 

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited Luxembourg S.C.S. 
      
    Luxembourg 

AbbVie International S.  r.l. 
      
    Luxembourg 

AbbVie Investments S.  r.l. 
      
    Luxembourg 

AbbVie Overseas S.  r.l. 
      
    Luxembourg 

AbbVie S.  r.l. 
      
    Luxembourg 

AbbVie Sdn. Bhd. 
      
    Malaysia 

AbbVie Farmac uticos, S.A. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 

AbbVie B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Finance B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Ireland NL B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Japan Holdings B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Logistics B.V 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Nederland Holdings B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Research B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

AbbVie Venezuela B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Venezuela Holdings B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

AbbVie Limited 
      
    New Zealand 

AbbVie AS 
      
    Norway 

AbbVie, S. de R.L. 
      
    Panama 

AbbVie Polska Sp. z o.o. 
      
    Poland 

AbbVie Sp. z o.o. 
      
    Poland 

AbbVie, L.da 
      
    Portugal 

AbbVie Promo  o, L.da 
      
    Portugal 

AbbVie Corp 
      
    Puerto Rico 

Knoll LLC 
      
    Puerto Rico 

S.C. AbbVie S.R.L. 
      
    Romania 

AbbVie Limited Liability Company 
      
    Russia 

AbbVie Operations Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 

AbbVie Pte. Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 

AbbVie Holdings s.r.o. 
      
    Slovakia 

AbbVie s.r.o. 
      
    Slovakia 

AbbVie d.o.o. 
      
    Slovenia 

AbbVie (Pty) Ltd. 
      
    South Africa 

AbbVie Spain, S.L. 
      
    Spain 

Fundaci n AbbVie 
      
    Spain 

AbbVie AB 
      
    Sweden 

Exhibit 21 
  List Of Subsidiaries 

AbbVie AG 
      
    Switzerland 

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals GmbH 
      
    Switzerland 

Pharmacyclics Switzerland GmbH 
      
    Switzerland 

AbbVie Ltd. 
      
    Thailand 

AbbVie Sarl 
      
    Tunisia 

AbbVie T bbi  la lar Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited  irketi 
      
    Turkey 

AbbVie  Australasia Holdings Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 

AbbVie Biotherapeutics Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 

AbbVie Investments Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 

AbbVie Ltd 
      
    United Kingdom 

AbbVie Trustee Company Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 

AbbVie UK Holdco Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 

AbbVie S.A. 
      
    Uruguay 

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals SCA 
      
    Venezuela 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 abbv-20161231xex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:            
  (1) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185561) pertaining to the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, 
  (2) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185562) pertaining to the AbbVie 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees, 
  (3) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185563) pertaining to the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan, 
  (4) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185564) pertaining to the AbbVie Savings Program, 
  (5) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-203677) pertaining to debt securities of AbbVie Inc., 
   (6) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-204466) pertaining to the Pharmacyclics, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Awards Plan, 
  (7) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-207422) pertaining to the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, and 
  (8) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-212067) pertaining to the Stemcentrx 2011 Equity Incentive Plan; 
    
  of our reports dated February 17, 2017, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2016. 
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  Chicago, Illinois 
  February 17, 2017 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 abbv-20161231xex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)) 
    
  I, Richard A. Gonzalez, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    AbbVie s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for AbbVie and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to AbbVie, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in AbbVie s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during AbbVie s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie s internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    AbbVie s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to AbbVie s auditors and the audit committee of AbbVie s board of directors: 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect AbbVie s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in AbbVie s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 17, 2017 
    /s/ Richard A. Gonzalez 
        
    Richard A. Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board 
  and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 abbv-20161231xex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)) 
    
  I, William J. Chase, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    AbbVie s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for AbbVie and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to AbbVie, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in AbbVie s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during AbbVie s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie s internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    AbbVie s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to AbbVie s auditors and the audit committee of AbbVie s board of directors: 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect AbbVie s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in AbbVie s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 17, 2017 
    /s/ William J. Chase 
        
    William J. Chase, Executive Vice President, 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 abbv-20161231xex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 

Certification Pursuant To 
   18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
   As Adopted Pursuant To 
   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of AbbVie Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2016   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), I, Richard A. Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
       
               /s/ Richard A. Gonzalez 
      Richard A. Gonzalez 
  Chairman of the Board and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

February 17, 2017    

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AbbVie Inc. and will be retained by AbbVie Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 abbv-20161231xex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.2 

Certification Pursuant To 
   18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
   As Adopted Pursuant To 
   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of AbbVie Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2016   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), I, William J. Chase, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
       
               /s/ William J. Chase 
      William J. Chase 
  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 

February 17, 2017    
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AbbVie Inc. and will be retained by AbbVie Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 abbv-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 abbv-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 abbv-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 abbv-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 abbv-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 abbv-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

