<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120724_10-K_edgar_data_320187_0001193125-12-312306_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>12966294</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>540594</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2836666</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2926381</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4249745</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2118236</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>133</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-312306.hdr.sgml : 20120724
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120724161623
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-312306
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20120531
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120724
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120724

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NIKE INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000320187
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR [3021]
		IRS NUMBER:				930584541
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OR
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10635
		FILM NUMBER:		12976749

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE BOWERMAN DR
		CITY:			BEAVERTON
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97005-6453
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5036713173

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE BOWERMAN DR
		CITY:			BEAVERTON
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97005-6453

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-312306.txt : 20120724

10-K
 1
 d341264d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549   
   FORM 10-K       (Mark One)   
                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       F OR   THE   FISCAL   YEAR 
 ENDED  M AY  31, 2012         OR     
                 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15( D ) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934        F OR   THE   TRANSITION   PERIOD 
 FROM                           TO 
                        .        Commission File No. 1-10635          

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)    
   
     (Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)    

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:   
 
   Class B Common Stock   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   (Title of Each Class)   
     
   (Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered)    

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:   
 
   NONE  

Indicate by check mark    
     
   YES   
     
   NO    

if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  

if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  

whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  

whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 229.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  

if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  

whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer              
     
  Accelerated filer              
     
  Non-accelerated file              

Smaller Reporting Company               

whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).   

As of November 30, 2011, the aggregate market values of the Registrant s
Common Stock held by non-affiliates were:       
      As of July 19, 2012, the number of shares of the Registrant s Common Stock
outstanding were:       
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:       Parts of Registrant s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on September 20, 2012 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.   

Table of Contents  

    NIKE, INC.    
   ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K          Table of
Contents        

Page   

PART I     

1   

ITEM 1.   
     
   Business   

1  

General   

1  

Products   

1  

Sales and Marketing   

2  

United States Market   

2  

International Markets   

2  

Significant Customer   

3  

Orders   

3  

Product Research and Development   

3  

Manufacturing   

3  

International Operations and Trade   

4  

Competition   

5  

Trademarks and Patents   

5  

Employees   

5  

Executive Officers of the Registrant   

6  

ITEM 1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   

7  

ITEM 1B.       
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

12  

ITEM 2.   
     
   Properties   

12  

ITEM 3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   

12  

ITEM 4.   
     
   Mine Safety Disclosures   

12  

PART II     

13   

ITEM 5.   
     
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

13  

ITEM 6.   
     
   Selected Financial Data   

15  

ITEM 7.   
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

16  

ITEM 7A.   
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

35  

ITEM 8.   
     
   Financial Statements and Supplemental Data   

36  

ITEM 9.   
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

64  

ITEM 9A.   
     
   Controls and Procedures   

64  

ITEM 9B.       
     
   Other Information   

64  

PART III     

65   

(Except for the information set forth under  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Item 1 above, Part III is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement for the NIKE,
Inc. 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.)  

ITEM 10.   
     
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

65  

ITEM 11.   
     
   Executive Compensation   

65  

ITEM 12.   
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

65  

ITEM 13.   
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

65  

ITEM 14.   
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

65  

PART IV     

66   

ITEM 15.   
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

66  

Signatures   

70  

Table of Contents  

      PART I    

ITEM 1.   
   Business            General
              NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1968 under the laws of the state of Oregon. As used in this report, the terms  we ,  us ,  NIKE  and the  Company  refer to NIKE, Inc. and its
predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates otherwise. Our internet address is  www.nike.com.  On our NIKE Corporate web site, located at  www.nikeinc.com,  we post the following filings as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All such filings on our NIKE Corporate web site are available free of charge. Also available on the NIKE Corporate web site are the
charters of the committees of our board of directors, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and code of ethics; copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to NIKE Investor
Relations, One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453.      Our principal business activity is the design, development and worldwide marketing and
selling of high quality footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the world. We sell our products to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned retail stores and internet
sales, which we refer to as our  Direct to Consumer  operations, and through a mix of independent distributors and licensees, in approximately 190 countries around the world. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by independent
contractors. Virtually all footwear and apparel products are produced outside the United States, while equipment products are produced both in the United States and abroad.   
         Products    
          We focus our product offerings in seven key categories: Running, Basketball, Football (Soccer), Men s Training, Women s Training, NIKE Sportswear (our sports-inspired products), and Action Sports. We also
market products designed for kids, as well as for other athletic and recreational uses such as baseball, cricket, golf, lacrosse, outdoor activities, football (American), tennis, volleyball, walking and wrestling.   
  NIKE s athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for casual or leisure
purposes. We place considerable emphasis on high quality construction and innovation in products designed for men, women and children. NIKE Sportswear, Running, Basketball, Football (Soccer) and kids  shoes are currently our top-selling
footwear categories and we expect them to continue to lead in product sales in the near future.      We sell sports apparel and accessories covering most of
the above categories, as well as athletic bags and accessory items. NIKE apparel and accessories feature the same trademarks and are sold through the same marketing and distribution channels. We often market footwear, apparel and accessories in
 collections  of similar use or by category. We also market apparel with licensed college and professional team and league logos.      We sell a
line of performance equipment under the NIKE Brand name, including bags, socks, sport balls, eyewear, timepieces, digital devices, bats, gloves, protective equipment, golf clubs, and other equipment designed for sports activities. We also sell small
amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through our wholly-owned subsidiary, NIKE IHM, Inc.      In addition to the products we sell
directly to customers through our Direct to Consumer operations, we have entered into license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture and sell certain apparel, digital devices and applications and other equipment designed for
sports activities.      Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cole Haan ( Cole Haan ), headquartered in New York, New York, designs and
distributes dress and casual footwear, apparel and accessories for men and women under the Cole Haan    trademark.   
  Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Converse Inc. ( Converse ), headquartered in North Andover, Massachusetts, designs, distributes and
licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories under the Converse   , Chuck
Taylor   , All Star   , One Star   , Star Chevron    and Jack Purcell    trademarks.      Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hurley
International LLC ( Hurley ), headquartered in Costa Mesa, California, designs and distributes a line of action sports and youth lifestyle apparel and accessories under the Hurley    trademark.      Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Umbro
International Limited ( Umbro ), headquartered in Cheadle, United Kingdom, designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for the sport of football (soccer), under the Umbro    trademark.      As part of our long-term growth strategy, we continually evaluate
our existing portfolio of businesses to ensure we are investing in those businesses that are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and with the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, we announced our intention to divest of the
Cole Haan and Umbro businesses, which will allow us to focus our resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. Refer to the  Other Businesses  section under Item 7  Management Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information.   

Table of Contents  

      Sales and Marketing    
      Financial information about geographic and segment operations
appears in Note 17   Operating Segments and Related Information of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 60.      We
experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary
considerably as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment.      Because NIKE is a
consumer products company, the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. We must therefore respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of
existing product offerings, developing new products, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing. Failure to respond in a timely and adequate manner could have a material adverse effect on our
sales and profitability. This is a continuing risk.      We report our NIKE Brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. Each NIKE
Brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment. Our reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America, Western Europe,
Central   Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan, and Emerging Markets. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are managed within each geographic segment.       
     United States Market    
          In fiscal 2012, sales in the United States including U.S. sales of our Other Businesses accounted for approximately 42% of total revenues, compared to 43% in fiscal 2011 and 42% in fiscal 2010. Our Other
Businesses were primarily comprised of our affiliate brands; Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley and Umbro; and NIKE Golf. We sell to thousands of retail accounts in the United States, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic
specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops, and other retail accounts. During fiscal 2012, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 24% of sales in the United States.   
  We make substantial use of our  futures  ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the
commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. In fiscal 2012, 86% of our U.S. wholesale footwear shipments (excluding our Other Businesses) were made under the futures program, compared to 87% in fiscal
2011 and 89% in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2012, 64% of our U.S. wholesale apparel shipments (excluding our Other Businesses) were made under the futures program, compared to 60% in fiscal 2011 and 62% in fiscal 2010.   
  We utilize NIKE sales offices to solicit sales in the United States as well as independent sales representatives to sell specialty products for golf, skateboarding
and snowboarding products. In addition, our Direct to Consumer operations sell NIKE Brand products through our internet website,  www.nikestore.com , and the following in-line and factory retail outlets in the United States:   

U.S. Retail Stores   
     
   Number   

NIKE factory stores  

156  

NIKE in-line stores, including NIKETOWNs and employee-only stores  

28  

Cole Haan stores (including factory stores)  

109  

Converse stores (including factory stores)  

62  

Hurley stores (including factory and employee stores)  

29  

TOTAL   

384   
         
        NIKE s three significant distribution centers in the
United States for NIKE Brand products, including NIKE Golf, are located in Memphis, Tennessee. NIKE also operates and leases one facility in Memphis, Tennessee for NIKE Brand product returns. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment products are also
shipped from our Foothill Ranch, California distribution center. Cole Haan products are distributed primarily from Greenland, New Hampshire, and Converse and Hurley products are shipped primarily from Ontario, California.   
         International Markets    
          In fiscal 2012, non-U.S. sales (including non-U.S. sales of our Other Businesses) accounted for 58% of total revenues, compared to 57% in fiscal 2011 and 58% in fiscal 2010. We sell our products to retail accounts,
through our own Direct to Consumer operations, and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. We sell to thousands of retail accounts and operate 16 distribution centers outside of the United
States. In many countries and regions, including Canada, Asia, some Latin American countries, and Europe, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures program described above. During fiscal 2012, NIKE s
three largest customers outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 11% of total non-U.S. sales.          Our Direct to Consumer business operates the following in-line and factory retail outlets outside the United States:       

Non-U.S. Retail Stores   
     
   Number   

NIKE factory stores  

308  

NIKE in-line stores, including NIKETOWNs and employee-only stores  

65  

Cole Haan stores (including factory stores)  

69  

TOTAL   

442   

Table of Contents  

   International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda,
Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Lebanon, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, the
Netherlands, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay and Vietnam.
            Significant Customer    
      No customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales during
fiscal 2012.         Orders    
          Worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from June through November 2012, were $11.2 billion compared to $10.5 billion for the same period last year. This
futures order amount is calculated based upon our forecast of the actual exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. Reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this
period. This is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders and the fulfillment of certain of these futures orders may fall outside of the scheduled time period noted above. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders,
including at-once and close-out sales of NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, sales of NIKE Brand equipment, sales from our Direct to Consumer operations, and sales from our Other Businesses.   
         Product Research and Development    
          We believe our research and development efforts are a key factor in our past and future success. Technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment receive
continued emphasis as NIKE strives to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort.      In addition to
NIKE s own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers,
equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. Employee
athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process.       
     Manufacturing        
      Virtually all of our footwear is produced by factories we contract with outside of the United
States. In fiscal 2012, contract factories in Vietnam, China and Indonesia, manufactured approximately 41%, 32% and 25% of total NIKE Brand footwear, respectively. We also have manufacturing agreements with independent factories in Argentina,
Brazil, India, and Mexico to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. The largest single footwear factory that we have contracted with accounted for approximately 5% of total fiscal 2012 NIKE Brand footwear production. Almost
all of NIKE Brand apparel is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers located in 28 countries. Most of this apparel production occurred in China, Vietnam, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia, Turkey,
Cambodia, Mexico, and El Salvador. The largest single apparel factory that we have contracted with accounted for approximately 8% of total fiscal 2012 apparel production.      The principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas, and polyurethane films used to make Air-Sole cushioning
components. During fiscal 2012, NIKE IHM, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIKE, as well as independent contractors in China and Taiwan, were our largest suppliers of the Air-Sole cushioning components used in footwear. The principal materials
used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture. NIKE s independent
contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. Most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where
manufacturing takes place. We have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying our raw material requirements.      Since 1972, Sojitz Corporation of
America ( Sojitz America ), a large Japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. During fiscal 2012, Sojitz America provided financing and
purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in Argentina, Uruguay, Canada, Brazil, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, South Africa, China, Korea, and Thailand, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Approximately
19% of NIKE Brand sales occurred in those countries. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to
our customers in those jurisdictions. Such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. However, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability
of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. Our current agreements with Sojitz America expire on May 31, 2014.   

Table of Contents  

      International Operations and Trade    
          Our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible revaluation of currencies, export and import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas,
safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood
of such developments occurring.      The global economic recession resulted in a significant slow-down in international trade and a sharp rise in
protectionist actions around the world. These trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. Companies in our industry are facing trade protectionist
challenges in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together to address trade issues to reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. Notwithstanding our efforts, such actions, if
implemented, could result in increases in the cost of our products, which may in turn adversely affect our sales or profitability and the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. Accordingly, we are actively monitoring the developments
described below.           Footwear Imports into the European Union    
          In 2005, at the request of the European domestic footwear industry, the European Commission ( EC ) initiated investigations into leather footwear imported from China and Vietnam. Together with other
companies in our industry, we took the position that Special Technology Athletic Footwear (STAF) (i) should not be within the scope of the investigation, and (ii) does not meet the legal requirements of injury and price in an anti-dumping
investigation. Our arguments were successful and the EU agreed in October 2006 on definitive duties of 16.5% for China and 10% for Vietnam for non-STAF leather footwear, but excluded STAF from the final measures. Prior to the scheduled expiration in
October 2008 of the measures imposed on the non-STAF footwear, the domestic industry requested and the EC agreed to review a petition to extend these restrictions on non-STAF leather footwear. In December 2009, following a review of the ongoing
restrictions, EU member states voted to extend the measures for an additional 15 months, until March 31, 2011. In early 2011, the EC declined to further extend the measures and since April 1, 2011 these restrictions have been terminated.
The EC noted at the time that it would monitor leather footwear imports from Vietnam and China over the next 12 months. No new trade defense actions have been taken by the EC.      On February 3, 2010, the Chinese government announced it would seek to refer the EU decision (both on the original measures and subsequent review decision) to the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) for
its further review and decision. On May 18, 2010, the Dispute Settlement Body of the WTO agreed to establish a panel to rule on China s claims against the EU with respect to the above anti-dumping measures. On October 28, 2011, the
WTO issued a ruling in which it supported China s positions on a number of issues. Neither party has filed an appeal.           Footwear, Apparel and Equipment Imports into Brazil and Argentina        
      At the request of certain domestic footwear industry participants, both Brazil and Argentina
have initiated independent anti-dumping investigations against footwear made in China. Over the last two years, we have been working with a broad coalition of other companies in our industry to challenge these cases on the basis that the athletic
footwear being imported from China (i) should not be within the scope of the investigation, and (ii) does not meet the legal requirements of injury and price in an anti-dumping investigation. In the case of Argentina, in 2010, the final
determination made by the administering authorities was favorable to us. In the case of Brazil, the administering authorities agreed to impose an anti-dumping duty against nearly all footwear from China, which we believe will impact all brands in
the footwear industry. This decision does not materially affect us. In October 2011, the Brazilian government initiated an anti-circumvention investigation to determine whether Chinese-made products or components were subject to minimal assembly or
finishing in Vietnam or Indonesia to evade anti-dumping duties on Chinese-made products. In July 2012, the Brazilian government found no circumvention was taking place and this matter is closed.   
  Many products, including footwear, apparel and equipment, that we and others in our industry import into Argentina and Brazil are subject to the WTO non-automatic
licensing requirements, which means that it may take up to 60 days for those products to clear customs and enter into those jurisdictions. From time to time, in addition to these WTO licensing requirements, these jurisdictions impose further
importation restrictions or limitations. As a result, we have experienced delays in our ability to import our products or it has taken longer than the time allowed under the WTO for us to import our products. To date, our business has not been
materially affected by these restrictions or delays. In the future, however, if we are unable to import our products into these jurisdictions due to these or other restrictions or if we experience increasing or more frequent delays beyond the
WTO-permitted 60 days to import our products, our business could be materially affected.           Footwear, Apparel and Equipment Imports into Turkey        
      In 2006, Turkey introduced safeguard measures in the form of additional duties on all imported
footwear into Turkey with the goal of protecting its local shoe manufacturing industry until August 2009. In June 2009, Turkish shoe-manufacturers submitted, and the Turkish government agreed to review, a request for extension of the safeguard
measures claiming that the rehabilitation process of the local Turkish industry was interrupted due to the continuing increase of footwear imports. Despite the importers opposition to the continuation of the safeguard measures, the Turkish
authorities extended these safeguard measures until August 2012, but reduced the duty from $3 per pair of footwear to $1.60 per pair of footwear. In June 2012, the government of Turkey launched an expiry review on the footwear safeguards to assess
if they should be extended for three additional years (until August 2015). Together with other companies in our industry, we are advocating for exclusion of certain footwear products (STAF shoes) that cannot be manufactured in Turkey and
therefore should not be subject to a higher import duty.      In 2011, two new safeguard measures and reviews were initiated by the Turkish Undersecretariat
of Foreign Trade ( UFT ) on apparel and equipment imports. In January 2011, the UFT began an investigation on apparel imports that could result in a 20-30% increase in import duties applied to imported apparel products, regardless of
country of origin and with exceptions for EU   

Table of Contents  

and countries that are included in a cross-cumulation of origin system in the framework of the Free Trade Agreements to which Turkey is a party, subject to evidence of preferential origin. In
July 2011, these higher import duties were approved and will be in place through July 2014.      Together with other companies in our industry, we advocated
for exclusion of certain apparel products used for sporting activities that cannot be manufactured in Turkey and therefore should not be subject to a higher import duty but no exclusion has been granted.   
  In February 2011, the UFT began a review of existing safeguard measure on travel goods, handbags and similar accessories and containers listed under applicable
regulations. One Turkish bag manufacturers association has requested the continuation of the safeguard measures through April 2014, with the application of an additional import duty of $2.50/kg (max. $3.75/unit) to $2.70/kg (max. $4.25/unit),
regardless of country of origin. In October 2011, these higher import duties were approved and will be in place through April 2014.      Together with other
companies in our industry, we advocated for the exclusion of non-leather bags from the scope of the continued safeguards but no exclusion has been granted.       
   Trade Relations with China        
      China represents an important sourcing country and consumer marketing country for us. Many
governments around the world are concerned about China s growing and fast-paced economy, compliance with WTO rules, currency valuation, and high trade surpluses. As a result, a wide range of legislative proposals have been introduced to address
these concerns. We are working with broad coalitions of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors (e.g., services, manufacturing, and agriculture) to help ensure any legislation enacted and implemented
(i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules, and (iii) reflects and considers China s domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. We believe
other companies in our industry as well as most other multi-national companies are in a similar position regarding these trade measures.      In the event
any of these trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. If events prevented us
from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. However, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the
adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature. We believe our principal competitors are subject to similar risks.       
     Competition        
      The athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the United
States and on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of
athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, and equipment, including Adidas, Puma, and others. The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic
equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations.            NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the world. Performance and reliability of shoes, apparel, and equipment, new product development, price, product identity through marketing
and promotion, and customer support and service are important aspects of competition in the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry. To help market our products, we contract with prominent and influential athletes, coaches, teams,
colleges and sports leagues to endorse our brands and use our products, and we actively sponsor sporting events and clinics. We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas.   
         Trademarks and Patents    
          We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the
Company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our NIKE    and Swoosh Design    trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 150 jurisdictions. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we
utilize in marketing our products. We continue to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement.      NIKE has an exclusive,
worldwide license to make and sell footwear using patented  Air  technology. The process utilizes pressurized gas encapsulated in polyurethane. Some of the early NIKE
AIR    patents have expired, which may enable competitors to use certain types of similar technology. Subsequent NIKE AIR    patents will not expire for several years. We also have over a thousand U.S. and foreign utility patents, and thousands of U.S. and foreign design patents covering
components, manufacturing techniques and features used in various athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, athletic equipment, digital devices and golf products. These patents expire at various times, and patents issued for applications filed this year
will last from now to 2026 for design patents, and from now to 2032 for utility patents. We believe our success depends primarily upon skills in design, research and development, production, and marketing rather than upon our patent position.
However, we have followed a policy of filing applications for United States and foreign patents on inventions, designs, and improvements that we deem valuable.       
     Employees        
      As of May 31, 2012, we had approximately 44,000 employees worldwide, including retail and
part-time employees. Management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. None of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the Emerging Markets geography, where local law requires those employees to
be represented by a trade union, and in the United States, where certain employees of Cole Haan are represented by a union. Also, in some countries outside of the United States, local laws require representation for employees by works councils (such
as in certain countries in the European Union, in which they are entitled to information and consultation on certain Company decisions) or other employee representation by an organization similar to a union, and in certain European countries, we are
required by local law to enter into and/or comply with (industry wide or national) collective bargaining agreements. There has never been a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements.   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Officers of the Registrant    
          The executive officers of NIKE as of July 19, 2012 are as follows:   
      Philip H. Knight,     Chairman of the Board  
Mr. Knight, 74, a director since 1968, is a co-founder of NIKE and, except for the period from June 1983 through September 1984, served as its President from 1968 to 1990 and from June 2000 to December 2004. Prior to 1968, Mr. Knight was a
certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse and Coopers   Lybrand and was an Assistant Professor of Business Administration at Portland State University.          Mark G. Parker,     President and Chief Executive Officer   Mr. Parker, 56, was appointed CEO and
President in January 2006. He has been employed by NIKE since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing, and brand management. Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of
development in 1987, corporate Vice President in 1989, General Manager in 1993, Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998, and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001.          David J. Ayre,     Vice President, Global Human Resources   Mr. Ayre, 52, joined NIKE as Vice
President, Global Human Resources in 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of senior human resource positions with PepsiCo, Inc. since 1990, most recently as head of Talent and Performance Rewards.   
      Donald W. Blair,     Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer   Mr. Blair, 54, joined NIKE in November 1999. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of financial management positions with PepsiCo, Inc., including Vice President, Finance of Pepsi-Cola Asia, Vice President, Planning of
PepsiCo s Pizza Hut Division, and Senior Vice President, Finance of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Blair was a certified public accountant with Deloitte, Haskins, and Sells.   
      Charles D. Denson,     President of the NIKE Brand  
Mr. Denson, 56, has been employed by NIKE since 1979. Mr. Denson held several management positions within the Company, including his appointments as Director of USA Apparel Sales in 1994, divisional Vice President, U.S. Sales in 1994,
divisional Vice President European Sales in 1997, divisional Vice President and General Manager, NIKE Europe in 1998, Vice President and General Manager of NIKE USA in 2000, and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001.   
      Gary M. DeStefano,     President, Global Operations  
Mr. DeStefano, 55, has been employed by NIKE since 1982, with primary responsibilities in sales and regional administration. Mr. DeStefano was appointed Director of Domestic Sales in 1990, divisional Vice President in charge of domestic
sales in 1992, Vice President of Global Sales in 1996, Vice President and General Manager of Asia Pacific in 1997, President of USA Operations in 2001, and President of Global Operations in 2006.   
      Trevor A. Edwards,     Vice President, Global Brand and
Category Management   Mr. Edwards, 49, joined NIKE in 1992. He was appointed Marketing Manager, Strategic Accounts, Foot Locker in 1993, Director of Marketing, the Americas in 1995, Director of Marketing, Europe in 1997, Vice President,
Marketing for Europe, Middle East and Africa in 1999, and Vice President, U.S. Brand Marketing in 2000. Mr. Edwards was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Brand Management in 2002 and Vice President, Global Brand and Category Management
in 2006. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Edwards was with the Colgate-Palmolive Company.          Jeanne P.
Jackson,     President, Direct to Consumer   Ms. Jackson, 60, served as a member of the NIKE, Inc. Board of Directors from 2001 through 2009, when she resigned from our Board
and was appointed President, Direct to Consumer. She is founder and CEO of MSP Capital, a private investment company. Ms. Jackson was CEO of Walmart.com from March 2000 to January 2002. She was with Gap, Inc., as President and
CEO of Banana Republic from 1995 to 2000, also serving as CEO of Gap, Inc. Direct from 1998 to 2000. Since 1978, she has held various retail management positions with Victoria s Secret, The Walt Disney Company, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Federated
Department Stores. Ms. Jackson is the past President of the United States Ski and Snowboard Foundation Board of Trustees, and is a director of McDonald s Corporation. She is a former director of Nordstrom, Inc., and Harrah s
Entertainment, Inc.          Hilary K. Krane,     Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Affairs   Ms. Krane, 48, joined NIKE as Vice President and General Counsel in April 2010. In 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Affairs. Prior to joining NIKE, Ms. Krane was General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Levi Strauss   Co. where she was responsible for legal affairs and overseeing the global brand protection department from
2006 to 2010. From 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.          Bernard F. Pliska,     Vice President, Corporate Controller   Mr. Pliska, 50, joined NIKE as Corporate Controller in 1995. He was appointed Vice
President, Corporate Controller in 2003. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Pliska was with Price Waterhouse from 1984 to 1995. Mr. Pliska is a certified public accountant.          John F. Slusher,     Vice President, Global Sports Marketing   Mr. Slusher, 43, has been employed
by NIKE since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. Mr. Slusher was appointed Director of Sports Marketing for the Asia Pacific and Americas Regions in 2006, divisional Vice President, Asia Pacific   Americas
Sports Marketing in September 2007 and Vice President, Global Sports Marketing in November 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Slusher was an attorney at the law firm of O Melveny   Myers from 1995 to 1998.   
      Eric D. Sprunk,     Vice President, Merchandising and
Product   Mr. Sprunk, 48, joined NIKE in 1993. He was appointed Finance Director and General Manager of the Americas in 1994, Finance Director, NIKE Europe in 1995, Regional General Manager, NIKE Europe Footwear in 1998, and Vice
President   General Manager of the Americas in 2000. Mr. Sprunk was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Footwear in 2001 and Vice President, Merchandising and Product in 2009. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Sprunk was a
certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse from 1987 to 1993.          Hans van Alebeek,
    Vice President, Global Operations and Technology   Mr. van Alebeek, 46, joined NIKE as Director of Operations of Europe in 1999, and was appointed Vice President,
Operations   Administration in EMEA in 2001, Vice President, Global Operations in 2003, Vice President, Global Operations   Technology in 2004, and Corporate Vice President in November 2005. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. van
Alebeek worked for McKinsey   Company as a management consultant and at N.V. Indivers in business development.          Roger S. Wyett,     President, Affiliates   Mr. Wyett, 55, joined NIKE in April 2005 as President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company s Hurley brand and was appointed Vice President, Global Apparel in 2006. In October 2007, Mr. Wyett returned to the Company s Hurley brand as President and Chief Executive Officer, and then in February 2011 was appointed
President of Affiliates. Mr. Wyett first joined NIKE in 1994, holding a number of management positions in soccer and NIKE Team Sports. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Wyett was employed by The Walt Disney Company where he was Senior Vice President
for Global Apparel, Accessories and Footwear, and later promoted to Executive Vice President for Global Sales and Marketing for Consumer Products.   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   Risk Factors                 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analyst Reports        Certain written and oral
statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKE s business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or
incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are  forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast,
indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words  believe ,  anticipate ,  expect ,  estimate ,  project ,  will be ,  will continue ,
 will likely result , or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties
are detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market
conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers;
demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer
preferences, consumer demand for NIKE products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining NIKE s increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without
limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without
limitation, the fact that advance  futures  orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, and the changing mix of futures and at-once orders and order cancellations; the ability of NIKE to sustain,
manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of NIKE s products; increases in the cost of materials and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure
and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business
disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing
business outside the United States, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business
and legal developments relating to, climate change; liability and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of our decision to divest of the Cole Haan and Umbro businesses; and other
factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports.      The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this
report may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKE s business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is
not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on NIKE s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially
from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.   
  Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKE s policy to disclose to them
any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report.
Furthermore, NIKE has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the
responsibility of NIKE.          Our products face intense competition.        NIKE is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. The athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment
industry is keenly competitive in the United States and on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large
companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, and equipment. We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity.
     Our competitors  product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs
of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. This, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute
significant risk factors in our operations. If we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly.   
      Failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business.     
  Our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. Maintaining, promoting
and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or
image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. In addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers  confidence in us and reduce
long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations.      In addition, our success in
maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. Negative posts or
comments about us on social networking web sites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. If we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected.          If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to
maintain or increase our net revenues and profits.        Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well
as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as
consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. If

Table of Contents  

we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and
categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition. In addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and online advertising. If we do not successfully market our products or if
advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.   
      We rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products.     
  Technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success
of our products. Research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. We rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and
advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. While we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance
athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense
to remedy the problems.          Failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business.     
  We establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to evaluate, promote, and establish product authenticity with consumers. If certain
endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those
athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. In addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly
identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our
products.          Failure of our contractors or our licensees  contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards
could harm our business.        We work with hundreds of contractors outside of the United States to manufacture our products, and we also have license
agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. We impose, and require our licensees to impose, on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety
standards for the benefit of workers. We also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. However, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may
not require their contractors to comply with such standards or applicable local law. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a
result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition.          Global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting
declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.     
  The uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. The current political and economic global environment has resulted in
continued economic unpredictability, particularly in Europe where there are concerns regarding the increased debt levels of certain countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the Euro
currency. Continuing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer
confidence and spending in many parts of the world. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition:       

Slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues,
increased inventories, and lower gross margins.          

We may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. This could result in lower interest income or
longer investment horizons. Disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid.      

We may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so.

The failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit and derivative instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely
on and benefit from those instruments. Our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions.      

We conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S.
Dollar. Continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition.      

Continued volatility and availability in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as
petroleum) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability.          

If retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or retailers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase
our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of retailers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense
associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense.          

If retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability
of our products to consumers.          

If contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets
to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products.             Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price.        We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters.
However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery
schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. This
seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer   

Table of Contents  

preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our
operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we
expect to continue. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period.   
       Futures  orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues.        We make substantial use of our  futures  ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set
period of time at a fixed price. Our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. We report changes in futures
orders in our periodic financial reports. Although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period.
This is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, shipping timing, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between
futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once and close-out sales of NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, sales of NIKE brand equipment, sales from our Direct to
Consumer operations, and sales from our Other Businesses.          Our  futures  ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or
inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business.        We purchase products from manufacturers outside
of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. There is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand
may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate
consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and
distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty.      The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of
operations and financial condition from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in
advance.          We may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers.     
  We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the
scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our  futures  ordering program. These advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk
of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. As
a result, retailers may be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. A slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by
retailers. Retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products.          Consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products.     
  The athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with
many stores. These retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. These situations concentrate our credit risk with a
relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. In addition, increasing market share concentration
among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to
sustain the same level of sales and revenues.          Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our
business.        We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily
identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our NIKE   
and Swoosh Design    trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 150 jurisdictions. In addition, we own many other
trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. We periodically discover products that are
counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a party s products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued
sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products.      The
actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of
proprietary rights. We may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe their trademarks, patents, or other intellectual property rights. Defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might
result in our entering into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products.      In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with
the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely
affected.          We are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and
resources.        From time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the
inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately   

Table of Contents  

predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any
significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees.          Our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business.     
  Virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the United States, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the United
States. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or
delays in cross-border shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. In addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. These
factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. If any of these or other factors
make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs, or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of
various types of goods imported into the United States and other countries. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo
restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.          Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and
profitability.        We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the
future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome
of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-US earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax
provision, which is subject to significant discretion.          Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and
decreased margins and earnings.        A majority of our products are sold outside of the United States. As a result, we conduct transactions in
various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these
revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into U.S. Dollars for consolidated financial reporting. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the
business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.      Our hedging activities (see Note 16   Risk Management and Derivatives in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements ),  which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations may not sufficiently mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results. Factors that could
affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only
reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. Dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. Dollar. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the foreign
currencies in which we conduct business. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities.          Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing.     
  The principal materials used in our apparel products   natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance
fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture   are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. The principal materials used in our footwear products   natural and synthetic rubber,
plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films   are also locally available to manufacturers. NIKE contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk.   
  There could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to
locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. If we experience significant
increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available
when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new
manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety
standards. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues
and net income both in the short and long-term.      Because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales
markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or
other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use
faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum
products can adversely affect our profit margins.      In addition, Sojitz America performs significant import-export financing services for most of the NIKE
Brand products sold outside of the United States, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America s banks
could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the United States, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Japan. Such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely
affect sales and profitability.          Natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.    
  Natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, and the
consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our vendors and other suppliers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating
results and financial condition.   

Table of Contents  

       Our success depends on our global distribution facilities.     
  We distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. Our ability to meet customer
expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely
performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). Our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or
fires. Any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by
significant disruptions in our distribution facilities.          We rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including
our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy, breach, interruption or security failure of that technology or any misappropriation of any data could harm our reputation or our ability to effectively operate our business.
       We are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the Internet and third-party hosted services
( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external
and internal reporting purposes and other business activities. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology
systems. Over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. Over the next few years, we
will work to continue to enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these
systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
     We also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with
regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could
experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage.      In addition,
hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. Any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, our customers  or employees  personal information or
a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards
enacted to protect this business and personal data. An inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks.   
  Furthermore, we depend on information technology systems for digital marketing campaigns and activities and electronic communications throughout the world between
and among our employees as well as with other third parties, such as other customers, suppliers and consumers. Our information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes may be negatively impacted
by any service interruption or shutdown. Misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and damage our reputation and credibility and have a negative impact on revenues and profits.
         Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns.
       From time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation, and
expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. We believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. However, significant
investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. The failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability we expect could have a material adverse effect on our
financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations.          We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom
would harm our business.        Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. The loss of
the services of any key individual could harm us. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in
attracting and retaining such personnel.          The sale of a large number of shares held by our Chairman could depress the market price of our
common stock.        Philip H. Knight, Co-founder and Chairman of our Board of Directors, beneficially owns over 74.8% of our Class A Common
Stock. If all of his Class A Common Stock were converted into Class B Common Stock, Mr. Knight would own over 15.5% of our Class B Common Stock. These shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the U.S. securities
laws. The sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.   
      Anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the Company or reduce the price of our common stock.     
  There are provisions of our articles of incorporation and Oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the Board of Directors a means
to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote
separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of Class A Common Stock elect three-fourths of the Board of Directors rounded down to the next whole number. However, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited
merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. These
provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the Company.          We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the
price of our stock to decline.        Our Class B Common Stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our
financial results and issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts  estimates of our future performance. The analysts  estimates are based upon their own opinions and
are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has been
brought against NIKE and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs
and a diversion of management s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business.   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         Not applicable.   

ITEM 2.   
   Properties             The following is a summary of principal properties owned or leased by NIKE.      The NIKE World Campus, owned by NIKE and
located in Beaverton, Oregon, USA, is a 213 acre facility of 22 buildings which functions as our world headquarters and is occupied by almost 7,000 employees engaged in management, research, design, development, marketing, finance, and other
administrative functions from nearly all of our divisions. We also lease various office facilities in the surrounding metropolitan area. We lease a similar, but smaller, administrative facility in Hilversum, the Netherlands, which serves as the
headquarters for the Western Europe and Central   Eastern Europe geographies. There are three significant distribution and customer service facilities for NIKE Brand products, including NIKE Golf, in the United States. All three of them are
located in Memphis, Tennessee, two of which are owned and one of which is leased. NIKE also operates and leases one facility in Memphis, Tennessee for NIKE Brand product returns. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment are also shipped from our
Foothill Ranch, California distribution center, which we lease. Cole Haan also operates a distribution facility in Greenland, New Hampshire, which we lease. Smaller leased distribution facilities for other brands and non-NIKE Brand businesses are
located in various parts of the United States. We also own or lease distribution and customer service facilities in many parts of the world, the most significant of which are the distribution facilities located in Tomisato, Japan, Laakdal, Belgium,
and Taicang, China, all of which we own.      We manufacture Air-Sole cushioning materials and components at NIKE IHM, Inc. manufacturing facilities located
in Beaverton, Oregon and St. Charles, Missouri, which we own. We also manufacture and sell small amounts of various plastic products to other manufacturers through NIKE IHM, Inc.      Aside from the principal properties described above, we lease three production offices outside the United States, over 120 sales offices and showrooms worldwide, and approximately 85 administrative offices
worldwide. We lease more than 800 retail stores worldwide, which consist primarily of factory outlet stores. See  United States Market  and  International Markets  starting on page 2 of this Report, respectively. Our leases
expire at various dates through the year 2035.       

ITEM 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         There are no material pending legal
proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject.       

ITEM 4.   
   Mine Safety Disclosures         Not applicable.   

Table of Contents  

      PART II    

ITEM 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      
      NIKE s Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trades
under the symbol NKE. At July 19, 2012, there were 19,740 holders of record of our Class B Common Stock and 18 holders of record of our Class A Common Stock. These figures do not include beneficial owners who hold shares in nominee
name. The Class A Common Stock is not publicly traded but each share is convertible upon request of the holder into one share of Class B Common Stock. The following tables set forth, for each of the quarterly periods indicated, the high
and low sales prices for the Class B Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and dividends declared on the Class A and Class B Common Stock.   
   
    The following table presents a summary of share repurchases made by NIKE during the quarter ended May 31, 2012 under the
four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors in September 2008.       

Table of Contents  

    Performance Graph    
          The following graph demonstrates a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns for NIKE s Class B Common Stock, the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, the Standard   Poor s
Apparel, Accessories   Luxury Goods Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Footwear Index. The graph assumes an investment of $100 on May 31, 2007 in each of our Class B Common Stock, and the stocks comprising the Standard  
Poor s 500 Stock Index, the Standard   Poor s Apparel, Accessories   Luxury Goods Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Footwear Index. Each of the indices assumes that all dividends were reinvested.   
       COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG NIKE, INC.; S P 500 INDEX; S P
APPAREL, ACCESSORIES   LUXURY GOODS INDEX; AND THE DOW JONES U.S. FOOTWEAR INDEX          

The Dow Jones U.S. Footwear Index consists of NIKE, Deckers
Outdoor Corp., Wolverine World Wide, Inc., Iconix Brand Group Inc., Crocs, Inc., and Steven Madden, Ltd. Because NIKE is part of the Dow Jones U.S. Footwear Index, the price and returns of NIKE stock have a substantial effect on this index. The
Standard   Poor s Apparel, Accessories   Luxury Goods Index consists of VF Corp., Coach, Inc., Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, and Fossil, Inc. The Dow Jones U.S. Footwear Index and the Standard   Poor s Apparel,
Accessories, and Luxury Goods Index include companies in two major lines of business in which the Company competes. The indices do not encompass all of the Company s competitors, nor all product categories and lines of business in which the
Company is engaged.      The stock performance shown on the performance graph above is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The Company will not
make nor endorse any predictions as to future stock performance.      The performance graph above is being furnished solely to accompany this Report pursuant
to Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, and is not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after
the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   Selected Financial Data          
     Selected Quarterly Financial Data    

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations      
      NIKE designs, develops, markets and sells high quality footwear, apparel, equipment,
accessories and services worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our products to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned retail stores and internet sales, which we refer to as our  Direct to
Consumer  operations, and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives, worldwide. Our goal is to deliver value to our shareholders by building a profitable global portfolio of branded footwear, apparel,
equipment, accessories and service businesses. Our strategy is to achieve long-term revenue growth by creating innovative,  must have  products, building deep personal consumer connections with our brands, and delivering compelling
consumer experiences at retail and online.      In addition to achieving long-term revenue growth, we continue to strive to deliver shareholder value by
driving operational excellence in several key areas:       

Expanding gross margin by:          

Making our supply chain a competitive advantage,          

Reducing product costs through a continued focus on manufacturing efficiency, product design and innovation,      

Utilizing price increases to effectively manage the price-to-value equation for our customers.      

Improving selling and administrative expense productivity by focusing on investments that drive economic returns in the form of incremental revenue and gross
profit, and leveraging existing infrastructure across our portfolio of businesses to eliminate duplicative costs,          

Improving working capital efficiency, and          

Deploying capital effectively.         Through
execution of this strategy, our long-term financial goals continue to be:       

High-single-digit revenue growth,          

Mid-teens earnings per share growth,          

Increased return on invested capital and accelerated cash flows, and      

Consistent results through effective management of our diversified portfolio of businesses.      
  Over the past ten years, we have achieved or exceeded all of these financial goals. During this time, NIKE, Inc. s revenues and earnings per share have grown
9% and 15%, respectively, on an annual compounded basis. Our return on invested capital has increased from 15% to 22% and we expanded gross margins by 4 percentage points.            Our fiscal 2012 results demonstrated our continued focus toward delivering appropriate returns to our shareholders, while positioning
ourselves for sustainable, profitable long-term growth. Despite the ongoing challenges in the global economy, we delivered record revenues and earnings per share in fiscal 2012. Our revenues grew 16% to $24.1 billion, net income increased 4% to $2.2
billion, and we delivered diluted earnings per share of $4.73, an 8% increase from fiscal 2011.      Income before income taxes increased 5% for fiscal 2012,
driven by revenue growth and improved leverage on selling and administrative expense, which more than offset a decrease in gross margin and an increase in other expense. The increase in revenues was driven by growth across all NIKE Brand
geographies, key categories and product types. Brand strength, innovative products and strong category retail presentation continues to fuel the demand for our NIKE Brand products. During fiscal 2012, we introduced a number of innovations, including
the NIKE Fuelband and the Flyknit technology. The NIKE Fuelband is a digital device that tracks one s daily activities through a sport-tested accelerometer, while Flyknit is a new footwear technology that uses advanced materials and proprietary
manufacturing technology to produce a form-fitting, lightweight and seamless upper. During this time, we also expanded our NIKE + platform into our Basketball and Training categories, and launched new high performance uniforms for all 32 NFL teams.
Revenue for our Other Businesses also grew, reflective of growth across most businesses, led by Converse. Our gross margin continued to be impacted by higher product input costs, including materials and labor, which more than offset the positive
impacts of higher product selling prices, the growth of our Direct to Consumer business and benefits from ongoing product cost reduction initiatives.   
  For fiscal 2012, the growth of our net income was negatively affected by a year-over-year increase in our effective tax rate. However, diluted earnings per share
grew at a higher rate than net income due to a 3% decrease in the weighted average number of diluted common shares outstanding, driven by share repurchases during fiscal 2012 and 2011.      As part of our long-term growth strategy, we continually evaluate our existing portfolio of businesses to ensure the Company is investing in those businesses that are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and with the
largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, we announced our intention to divest of the Cole Haan and Umbro businesses, which will allow us to focus our resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley
brands. For additional details, refer to our  Other Businesses  section below.      While we will continue to face headwinds from higher input
costs and foreign exchange volatility in fiscal 2013, we continue to see opportunities to drive future growth and remain committed to effectively managing our business to achieve our financial goals over the long-term, by executing against the
operational strategies outlined above.           Results of Operations    

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Operating Results    
       Revenues    

(1)   
   Results have been restated using actual exchange rates in use during the comparative period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends by excluding the impact
of translation arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.          

(2)   
   Corporate revenues primarily consist of intercompany revenue eliminations and foreign currency revenue-related hedge gains and losses generated by entities within the NIKE
Brand geographic operating segments and certain Other Businesses through our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program.          

(3)   
   References to NIKE Brand wholesale equivalent revenues are intended to provide context as to the overall current NIKE Brand market footprint on a wholesale revenue basis. NIKE
Brand wholesale equivalent revenues consist of 1) sales to external wholesale customers and 2) internal sales from our wholesale operations to our Direct to Consumer operations at prices that are comparable to prices charged to external wholesale
customers. NIKE Brand wholesale equivalent revenues do not include the estimation of sales made by NIKE Brand licensees as the amounts are not material.      

(4)   
   Others include all other categories and certain adjustments that are not allocated at the category level.      

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011       On a currency neutral basis, revenues for NIKE, Inc. grew 14% for fiscal 2012, driven by increases in revenues for both the NIKE Brand and our Other Businesses. Excluding the effects of changes in currency exchange
rates, revenues for the NIKE Brand increased 15%, as every NIKE Brand geography delivered higher revenues for fiscal 2012. North America contributed approximately 7 percentage points to the NIKE Brand revenue increase, while the Emerging Markets and
Greater China geographies contributed approximately 4 and 2 percentage points to the NIKE Brand revenue growth, respectively. Revenues for our Other Businesses grew 11% during fiscal 2012, contributing 1 percentage point of our consolidated revenue
growth.      Excluding the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, NIKE Brand footwear and apparel revenue increased 15% and 13%, respectively, while
NIKE Brand equipment revenues increased 16% during fiscal 2012. Continuing to fuel the growth of our NIKE Brand footwear business was the increased demand for performance products, including the NIKE Lunar and FREE technologies. The increase in NIKE
Brand footwear revenue for fiscal 2012 was attributable to double-digit percentage growth in unit sales along with a low-single-digit percentage increase in average selling price per pair, primarily reflecting the favorable impact from product price
increases, partially offset by higher discounts on close-out sales. The overall increase in footwear sales was driven by growth across all key categories, notably Running, Sportswear and Basketball. For NIKE Brand apparel, the increase in revenue
for fiscal 2012 was driven by mid-single-digit percentage increases in both unit sales and average selling prices. The increase in average selling prices was primarily driven by product price increases, partially offset by a higher mix of close-out
sales. The overall increase in apparel sales was reflective of increased demand across most key categories.      While wholesale revenues remain the largest
component of overall NIKE Brand revenues, we continue to see growth in revenue through our Direct to Consumer channels. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations include NIKE owned in-line and factory stores, as well as online sales through NIKE
owned websites. For fiscal 2012, Direct to Consumer channels represented approximately 17% of our total NIKE Brand revenues compared to 16% in fiscal 2011. On a currency neutral basis, Direct to Consumer revenues grew 21% for fiscal 2012, as
comparable store sales grew 13% and we continue to expand our store network and e-commerce business. Comparable store sales include revenues from NIKE owned in-line and factory stores for which all three of the following requirements have been met:
the store has been open at least one year, square footage has not changed by more than 15% within the past year, and the store has not been permanently repositioned within the past year.      Revenues for our Other Businesses consist of results from our affiliate brands; Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley and Umbro; and NIKE Golf. Excluding the impact of currency changes, revenues for these businesses
increased by 11% in fiscal 2012, reflecting growth across all businesses except Hurley, which was slightly down for the fiscal year.       Fiscal 2011
Compared to Fiscal 2010       On both a reported and currency neutral basis, revenues for NIKE, Inc. grew 10% for fiscal 2011, driven by increases in
revenues for both the NIKE Brand and our Other Businesses. On a currency neutral basis, revenues for the NIKE Brand increased 10% for fiscal 2011, while revenues for our Other Businesses increased 8%. Excluding the effects of changes in currency
exchange rates, every NIKE Brand geography except Japan delivered higher revenues for fiscal 2011, led by North America, which contributed approximately 5 percentage points to the NIKE Brand revenue increase. The Emerging Markets and Greater China
contributed approximately 3 and 2 percentage points to the NIKE Brand revenue growth, respectively.      By product group, NIKE Brand footwear and apparel
revenue increased 12% and 10%, respectively, while NIKE Brand equipment revenues declined 2% during fiscal 2011. Fueling the growth of our NIKE Brand footwear business was the increased demand in our performance products, including the NIKE Lunar
and Free technologies. The increase in NIKE Brand footwear revenue for fiscal 2011 was attributable to a high-single-digit percentage increase in unit sales along with a low single-digit percentage increase in the average selling price per pair. The
increase in unit sales was primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in Running, Men s Training, Action Sports and Women s Training products, while the increase in average selling price per pair was primarily driven by price
increases on selected products and fewer close-outs as a percentage of total sales. For NIKE Brand apparel, the increase in revenue for fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by a low-double-digit percentage increase in unit sales attributable to strong
category presentations and improved product lines, while the average selling price per unit was relatively flat. The increase in unit sales was driven by increased demand in all key categories.   
  For fiscal 2011, Direct to Consumer channels represented approximately 16% of our total NIKE Brand revenues compared to 15% in fiscal 2010. On a currency neutral
basis, Direct to Consumer revenues grew 16% for fiscal 2011 as we continue to expand our store network, increase comparable store sales and build our e-commerce business. Comparable store sales grew 11% for fiscal 2011.   
  Excluding the impact of currency changes, revenues for Other Businesses increased by 8% in fiscal 2011, reflecting double-digit percentage revenue growth at
Converse, Cole Haan and Hurley, and a low-single-digit growth at Umbro, which more than offset a mid-single-digit revenue decline at NIKE Golf.   
   Futures Orders       Futures orders for NIKE Brand footwear and
apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2012 were 7% higher than the orders reported for the comparable prior year period. The U.S. Dollar futures order amount is calculated based upon our internal forecast of the currency
exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. Excluding the impact of currency changes, futures orders increased 12%, as unit orders and average selling price per unit each contributed approximately 6 percentage
points of growth.          By geography, futures orders growth was as follows:   

(1)   
   Growth rates have been restated using constant exchange rates for the comparative period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.            

Table of Contents  

   The reported futures orders growth is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenue growth during this
period. This is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing and because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders, and the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. In addition, exchange
rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures
orders, including at-once and close-out sales of NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, sales of NIKE Brand equipment, sales from our Direct to Consumer operations, and sales from our Other Businesses.   
       Gross Margin    
   
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  For fiscal 2012, our consolidated gross margin was 220 basis points lower than the prior year period, primarily driven by higher product input costs, including
materials and labor, across most businesses. Also contributing to the decrease in gross margin were higher customs duty charges, discounts on close-out sales and an increase in investments in our digital business and infrastructure. Together, these
factors decreased consolidated gross margin by approximately 390 basis points. Partially offsetting this decrease were positive impacts from product price increases, lower air freight costs, the growth of our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer business,
and benefits from our ongoing product cost reduction initiatives.       Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010    
  For fiscal 2011, our consolidated gross margin percentage was 70 basis points lower than the prior year, primarily driven by higher input costs, transportation
costs, including additional air freight incurred to meet strong demand for NIKE Brand products across most businesses, and a lower mix of licensee revenue as distribution for certain markets within our Other Businesses transitioned from licensees to
operating units of NIKE, Inc. Together, these factors decreased consolidated gross margins by approximately 130 basis points for fiscal 2011, with the most significant erosion in the second half of the fiscal year. These decreases were partially
offset by the positive impact from the growth and expanding profitability of our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer business, a higher mix of full-price sales and favorable impacts from our ongoing product cost efficiency initiatives.   
       Selling and Administrative Expense    

(1)   
   Demand creation consists of advertising and promotion expenses, including costs of endorsement contracts.      
       Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  Overall, selling and administrative expense grew at a slower rate than revenues for fiscal 2012.      Demand creation expense increased 11% compared to the prior year, mainly driven by an increase in sports marketing expense, marketing support for key product initiatives, including the NIKE Fuelband and NFL
uniforms, as well as an increased level of brand event spending around the European Football Championships and London Summer Olympics. For fiscal 2012, changes in currency exchange rates increased the growth of demand creation expense by 1
percentage point.      Compared to the prior year, operating overhead expense increased 11%, primarily attributable to increased investments in our Direct to
Consumer operations, higher personnel costs as well as travel expenses to support the growth of our overall business. For fiscal 2012, changes in currency exchange rates increased the growth of operating overhead expense by 1 percentage point.
      Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       In fiscal
2011, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on selling and administrative expense.      Demand creation
expense increased 4% compared to the prior year, primarily driven by a higher level of brand event spending around the World Cup and World Basketball Festival in the first half of fiscal 2011, as well as increased spending around key product
initiatives and investments in retail product presentation with wholesale customers.      Operating overhead expense increased 7% compared to the prior year.
This increase was primarily attributable to increased investments in our Direct to Consumer operations as well as growth in our wholesale operations, where we incurred higher personnel costs and travel expenses as compared to the prior year.
          Other Expense (Income), net    

Table of Contents  

   Other expense (income), net is comprised of foreign currency conversion gains and losses from the re-measurement of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies, the impact of certain foreign currency derivative instruments, as well as unusual or non-operating transactions that are outside the normal course of business.   
   Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011       For fiscal 2012, other
expense, net increased $87 million compared to the prior year. This change was primarily driven by a $76 million change in foreign currency net gains in the prior year to net losses in the current year. These impacts, together with a $24 million
charge recognized during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 for the restructuring of NIKE Brand s Western Europe operations, were partially offset by certain net gains related to non-operating items.   
  The combination of translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year change in foreign currency related
gains and losses included in other expense (income), net did not have a significant impact on our income before income taxes for fiscal 2012.       Fiscal
2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       For fiscal 2011, other expense (income), net was primarily comprised of net foreign currency gains.   
  For fiscal 2011, we estimated that the combination of translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year
change in foreign currency related net gains included in other expense (income), net had an unfavorable impact of approximately $33 million on our income before income taxes.   
       Income Taxes    
   
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 50 basis points higher than the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 primarily due to changes in estimates of uncertain tax
position. This impact was partially offset by a reduction in the effective tax rate on operations outside of the United States as a result of changes in geographical mix of foreign earnings.       Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 80 basis points higher than the
effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 primarily due to the change in geographic mix of earnings. A larger percentage of our earnings in fiscal 2011 were attributable to operations in the U.S., where the statutory tax rate is generally higher than the
tax rate on operations outside of the U.S. This impact was partially offset by changes in estimates of uncertain tax positions.       
   Operating Segments        
      The Company s reportable operating segments are based on our internal geographic
organization. Each NIKE Brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment. Our reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America,
Western Europe, Central   Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan, and Emerging Markets. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are managed within each geographic segment.      As part of our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program, standard foreign currency rates are assigned twice per year to each NIKE Brand entity in our geographic operating segments and certain
Other Businesses. These rates are set approximately nine months in advance of the future selling season based on average market spot rates in the calendar month preceding the date they are established. Inventories and cost of sales for geographic
operating segments and certain Other Businesses reflect use of these standard rates to record non-functional currency product purchases into the entity s functional currency. Differences between assigned standard foreign currency rates and
actual market rates are included in Corporate together with foreign currency hedge gains and losses generated from our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program.      Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal 2012 presentation.   

Table of Contents  

         The breakdown of revenues follows:

(1)   
   Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal 2012 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or
shareholders  equity.          

(2)   
   Results have been restated using actual exchange rates in use during the comparative period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends by excluding the impact
of translation arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.          

(3)   
   Corporate revenues primarily consist of certain intercompany revenue eliminations and foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within
the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and certain Other Businesses but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program.          
  The primary financial measure used by the Company to evaluate performance of individual operating segments is earnings before interest and taxes (commonly referred
to as  EBIT ) which represents net income before interest expense (income), net and income taxes in the consolidated statements of income. As discussed in Note 17   Operating Segments and Related Information in the accompanying Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain corporate costs are not included in EBIT of our operating segments.          The breakdown of earnings before interest and taxes is as follows:       

(1)   
   Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal 2012 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or
shareholders  equity.          North America    

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011       Revenues for North America increased 17% for fiscal 2012, driven by growth in both wholesale and Direct to Consumer revenues. Our category offense continued to deliver innovative products, deep brand connections
and compelling retail experiences to consumers, driving demand for NIKE Brand products across all seven key categories. North America s Direct to Consumer revenues grew 19% for fiscal 2012, fueled by 15% growth in comparable store sales.
     For fiscal 2012, footwear revenue in North America increased 15%, driven by an increase in both unit sales and average selling prices. Unit sales rose
at a double-digit rate while average selling price per pair grew at a mid-single-digit rate, reflective of product price increases, partially offset by higher discounts on close-out sales. The overall increase in footwear sales was driven by growth
in all key categories, most notably Running, Basketball, Women s Training and Sportswear.      Compared to the prior year, apparel revenue for North
America increased 18%, primarily driven by a low-double-digit percentage growth in average selling price per unit and a mid-single-digit percentage growth in unit sales. The increase in average selling price per unit was reflective of product price
increases and a greater mix of higher price point products. The overall increase in apparel sales was driven by double-digit percentage growth across most key categories, including Men s Training, Running and Basketball.   
  For fiscal 2012, EBIT for North America increased 16% as revenue growth and improved selling and administrative expense leverage more than offset a decline in gross
margin. Gross margin decreased 90 basis points during fiscal 2012, primarily due to higher product input costs and lower gross margins on close-out sales, which more than offset the favorable impact of selling price increases, lower air freight
costs and the growth of our Direct to Consumer business. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue decreased by 70 basis points for fiscal 2012, as both demand creation and operating overhead expense grew at a slower rate than
revenues.       Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010    
  Revenues for North America increased 13%, driven by double-digit percentage growth in both wholesale and Direct to Consumer revenues. Contributing to the wholesale
revenue growth was strong product category presentations at our wholesale customers, improved product lines and earlier shipments of summer season products. North America s Direct to Consumer revenues grew 19%, which contributed approximately 4
percentage points to North America s revenue increase. The growth in the Direct to Consumer business was fueled by 14% growth in comparable store sales.      For fiscal 2011, the increase in North America footwear revenue was primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in Running, Men s and Women s Training and Football (Soccer) and a single-digit
percentage growth in Basketball, partially offset by a low-single-digit percentage decline in sales of our NIKE Brand Sportswear products.      The
year-over-year increase in North America apparel revenues was primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in most key categories, most notably Men s Training, Running, Basketball and Women s Training.   
  For fiscal 2011, the increase in North America s EBIT was primarily the result of revenue growth and leverage on selling and administrative expense, which more
than offset a lower gross margin percentage. The decline in gross margin percentage was due primarily to increased air freight and product input costs, which more than offset the favorable impact from the growth of our Direct to Consumer business
and fewer close-out sales.           Western Europe    
   
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  On a currency neutral basis, revenues for Western Europe increased 4% for fiscal 2012, as most territories reported revenue growth, which more than offset revenue
declines in the U.K.   Ireland and Italy. Revenues for the U.K.   Ireland, the largest market in Western Europe, declined 3% for the fiscal 2012 period. Western Europe s Direct to Consumer revenues grew 18% for fiscal 2012,
including 8% growth in comparable store sales.      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, footwear revenue in Western Europe increased 5% for fiscal
2012, primarily driven by a low-single-digit percentage growth in both unit sales and average selling price per pair, primarily reflective of product price increases, partially offset by higher discounts on in-line and close-out sales. The overall
increase in footwear sales was driven by growth in Running, Basketball and Football (Soccer), which more than offset a decline in Action Sports.   
  Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, apparel revenue in Western Europe increased 2% for fiscal 2012. The year-over-year change was primarily driven by a
mid-single-digit percentage increase in average selling price per unit, reflective of higher product prices. Partially offsetting the increase in average selling price per unit was a mid-single-digit percentage decline in unit sales. The overall
increase in apparel sales was driven by growth in Football (Soccer) and Running, which more than offset a decline in Sportswear.      On a reported basis,
revenues for Western Europe increased 7% for fiscal 2012. However, EBIT fell 18%, primarily driven by a 350 basis point decline in gross margin and higher selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues. The decline in gross margin
was driven by higher product input costs and the negative impact from changes in standard currency rates, which more than offset the favorable impact of product price increases and the growth of our Direct to Consumer business. The increase in
selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues was mainly driven by an increased level of demand creation spending around the European Football Championships and London Summer Olympics. Also reflected in Western Europe s fiscal
2012 results was a $24 million charge relating to the restructuring of its operations.   

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       On a currency neutral basis, revenues for Western Europe increased 6% for fiscal 2011, attributable to growth in most territories. Revenues for the U.K.   Ireland, the largest market in Western Europe,
grew 5% for fiscal 2011. Western Europe s Direct to Consumer revenues grew 10%, which contributed approximately 1 percentage point to Western Europe s revenue increase. The growth in the Direct to Consumer business was fueled by 6% growth
in comparable store sales.      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, footwear revenue in Western Europe increased 8%, driven by double-digit
percentage growth in Running, Football (Soccer) and Action Sports, which more than offset a slight revenue decline in Sportswear.      On a currency neutral
basis, apparel revenue in Western Europe increased 4%, primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in Football (Soccer) and Running, which more than offset a mid-single-digit revenue decline in Sportswear.   
  For fiscal 2011, the decrease in Western Europe s EBIT was driven by unfavorable foreign currency translation and a lower gross margin percentage, all of which
more than offset the increase in revenues and improved leverage on selling and administrative expense. The decline in the gross margin percentage was significantly impacted by the unfavorable year-over-year standard currency rates. Also contributing
to the decrease in the gross margin percentage was higher product input and air freight costs, higher royalty expenses related to sales of endorsed team products and higher full price discounts. These factors more than offset the favorable impact of
fewer close-out sales.           Central   Eastern Europe
       
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  Excluding the changes in currency exchange rates, revenues for Central   Eastern Europe increased 17% for fiscal 2012, driven by growth across most
territories, including double-digit growth in Russia and Turkey, which more than offset lower revenues in Greece.      Excluding changes in currency exchange
rates, Central   Eastern Europe s footwear revenue grew 13%, primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in unit sales and a low-single-digit percentage increase in average selling price per pair. The increase in average selling
price per pair was reflective of product price increases which more than offset the negative impact of higher discounts on in-line and close-out sales. The overall increase in footwear sales was driven by growth across all key categories, most
notably Running, Sportswear and Football (Soccer).      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, Central   Eastern Europe s apparel
revenues grew 24%, mainly driven by double-digit percentage growth in unit sales, offset by a slight decrease in average price per unit, mainly due to less favorable product mix and higher discounts on in-line sales, which more than offset the
impact from product price increases. The overall increase in apparel sales was primarily driven by growth in Football (Soccer), Sportswear and Running.   
  On a reported basis, revenues for Central   Eastern Europe increased 15% for fiscal 2012. However, EBIT fell 4%, primarily driven by a 420 basis point
decline in gross margin. The decline in gross margin was primarily due to higher product input costs as well as higher discounts on in-line and close-out products, which more than offset the favorable impact from product price increases. Selling and
administrative expense as a percentage of revenues remained relatively flat compared to the prior period.       Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010
      Led by Russia and Turkey, most territories within Central   Eastern Europe reported revenue growth during fiscal 2011 as economic
conditions in the geography continued to show signs of recovery.      The growth in Central   Eastern Europe s footwear revenues was mainly
driven by double-digit percentage growth in Football (Soccer), Running and Action Sports, while the growth in apparel revenues was primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in Running.   
  For fiscal 2011, the decrease in Central   Eastern Europe s EBIT was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign currency translation and a lower gross
margin percentage, which more than offset the increase in revenues and improved leverage on selling and administrative expense. The decline in the gross margin percentage was primarily due to unfavorable year-over-year standard currency rates,
higher air freight costs and an increase in product input costs.       
   Greater China        

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011       Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, Greater China revenues increased 18% for fiscal 2012, driven by continued expansion in the number of both NIKE mono-branded stores owned by our wholesale customers and
NIKE owned stores, as well as higher comparable store sales.      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, the growth in Greater China s footwear
revenue for fiscal 2012 was primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in unit sales and a mid-single-digit growth in average unit price per pair, reflective of product price increases. The overall increase in footwear sales was driven by
double-digit percentage growth across most key categories, led by Running and Sportswear.      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, the growth in
Greater China s apparel revenues for fiscal 2012 was mainly driven by a high-single-digit growth in the average selling price per unit and a low-single-digit percentage increase in unit sales. The increase in average selling price was
reflective of product price increases, partially offset by higher discounts on in-line and close-out products to accelerate the sales of slower moving apparel inventories.      On a reported basis, revenues for Greater China increased 23% for fiscal 2012, while EBIT grew 17%, as revenue growth was partially offset by a decline in gross margin and an increase in selling and administrative
expense as a percentage of revenues. Gross margin decreased 150 basis points for fiscal 2012, primarily attributable to higher product input costs and discounts on close-out products, which more than offset the favorable impact of product price
increases. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues increased 50 basis points, driven by an increase in operating overhead expense.   
   Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       Excluding changes in
currency exchange rates, Greater China revenues increased 16% for fiscal 2011, driven by expansion in the number of partner-owned stores selling NIKE products, as well as improvement in comparable store sales for partner-owned stores.   
  For fiscal 2011, the increase in Greater China s footwear revenue was primarily driven by double-digit percentage growth in Running and Sportswear, while the
growth in apparel revenue was mainly driven by double-digit percentage increases in Sportswear, Basketball and Men s Training.      For fiscal 2011,
EBIT for Greater China grew at a faster rate than revenue as a result of a higher gross margin, improved leverage on selling and administrative expense and favorable foreign currency translation. The improvement in gross margin was primarily
attributable to higher product prices, favorable product mix and lower inventory obsolescence expense, which more than offset higher product input costs and warehousing costs from our new China distribution center.   
       Japan    
   
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  During fiscal 2012, the macroeconomic environment in Japan remained uncertain as the market continued to recover from the effects of the earthquake and tsunami in
March 2011. On a currency neutral basis, footwear revenue in Japan increased 3% for fiscal 2012, as growth in Running and Football (Soccer) more than offset a decline in Sportswear.      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, apparel revenue decreased 1% for fiscal 2012, as the decline in Sportswear more than offset the growth in Running and Football (Soccer).   
  On a reported basis, EBIT for Japan grew at a faster rate than revenue as a result of improved gross margin and leverage of selling and administrative expenses. The
increase in Japan s gross margin was mainly driven by the favorable impact from the year-over-year change in standard currency rates, a decrease in inventory obsolescence expense as well as a lower mix of close-out sales. These favorable
impacts were partially offset by higher product input costs.       Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010    
  On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a major earthquake and resulting tsunami. While the Company s organization and assets in Japan were not materially
damaged, business results for the month of March 2011 were significantly eroded by the natural disaster.      Excluding changes in currency exchange rates,
both footwear and apparel revenues in Japan declined, driven by decreases across most key categories. Partially offsetting the decreases was double-digit percentage growth in revenues from Running apparel.   
  The decrease in Japan s EBIT for fiscal 2011 was primarily due to lower revenues and higher selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue,
partially offset by an improvement in the gross margin percentage. The improvement in the gross margin percentage was primarily driven by favorable year-over-year standard currency rates and positive impacts from fewer discounts on close-out sales,
which more than offset higher product input costs and inventory obsolescence expense.   

Table of Contents  

    Emerging Markets    
   
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  Excluding the changes in currency exchange rates, revenues for the Emerging Markets increased 26% for fiscal 2012 as all territories in the geography reported
double-digit revenue growth, led by Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Korea.      For fiscal 2012, revenue growth for both footwear and apparel in the Emerging
Markets was driven by double-digit percentage growth in unit sales and mid-single-digit percentage growth in average selling price per unit, primarily reflective of product price increases. The overall increase in Emerging Markets  footwear and
apparel sales was driven by strong demand in nearly all key categories, led by Running and Sportswear.      The increase in Emerging Markets  EBIT for
fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of revenue growth and selling and administrative expense leverage, which more than offset a lower gross margin. Gross margin declined 150 basis points for the fiscal year, primarily due to higher product input
costs, customs duty charges and inventory obsolescence expense. These factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of changes in standard currency exchange rates and product price increases. Selling and administrative expense as a
percentage of revenues decreased 140 basis points, as both demand creation expense and operating overhead grew at a slower rate than revenues.   
   Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       Excluding the changes
in currency exchange rates, revenues for Emerging Markets increased 19% for fiscal 2011. Most territories in the geography reported double-digit revenue growth for the fiscal year, led by Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, and Korea.   
  For fiscal 2011, both footwear and apparel revenue growth in the Emerging Markets was driven by strong demand in nearly all key categories, most notably Sportswear
and Running.      For fiscal 2011, EBIT for Emerging Markets grew at a faster rate than revenue as a result of higher gross margin percentage, improved
leverage on selling and administrative expense and favorable foreign currency translation. The increase in the gross margin percentage was primarily due to a higher mix of in-line product sales, lower warehousing costs and favorable year-over-year
standard currency rates, which more than offset the increase in product input costs and higher full-price discounts.           Global Brand Divisions        
        Global Brand Divisions primarily represent demand creation and
operating overhead expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand. Revenues for the Global Brand Divisions are attributable to NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment.   
   Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011       For fiscal 2012, Global
Brand Divisions  loss before interest and taxes increased $206 million, primarily driven by increased investments in our digital business and infrastructure for our Direct to Consumer operations, higher sports marketing expense as well as
higher personnel costs to support our global brand functions.         
   Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       For fiscal 2011, the
increase in Global Brand Divisions  loss before interest and taxes was primarily due to an increase in both operating overhead and centrally managed demand creation expense. The increase in operating overhead expense was mainly driven by
increased investments in our Direct to Consumer infrastructure along with higher wages and travel expense. The increase in demand creation expense was primarily driven by a higher level of brand event spending around the World Cup and World
Basketball Festival in the first half of fiscal 2011, as well as increased investments in sports marketing.   

Table of Contents  

    Other Businesses    
   
         Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011    
  Our Other Businesses are comprised of our affiliate brands; Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley and Umbro; and NIKE Golf.   
  For fiscal 2012, revenues for our Other Businesses increased 11%, reflecting growth across most businesses, led by Converse. The revenue growth at Converse was
primarily driven by increased sales in North America and China, as well as increased revenues in the U.K. as we transitioned that market to direct distribution in the second half of fiscal 2011. Excluding changes in currency exchange rates, revenues
for NIKE Golf increased 9% for fiscal 2012, driven by double-digit percentage growth in our apparel business, partially offset by a single-digit percentage decline in our club business. On a currency neutral basis, revenues for Umbro grew 14%
primarily driven by sales growth in France due to our acquisition of the exclusive licensee and distributor in March 2011. For fiscal 2012, revenues for Cole Haan grew 3%, mostly driven by growth in our Direct to Consumer operations.   
  On a reported basis, revenues for our Other Businesses increased 11% for fiscal 2012, while EBIT grew 2%, as earnings growth at Converse was mostly offset by losses
at Umbro and Hurley. Higher selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues negatively affected profitability at both companies, while lower gross margins also contributed to the decline in Hurley s earnings.   
  As part of our long-term growth strategy, we continually evaluate our existing portfolio of businesses to ensure the Company is investing in those businesses that
are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and with the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, we announced our intention to divest of the Cole Haan and Umbro businesses, which will allow us to focus our resources on driving
growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. For fiscal 2012 and 2011, Cole Haan and Umbro combined contributed $797 million and $745 million, respectively, in revenues to the Other Businesses portfolio, and losses before interest and
taxes of $43 million and $18 million, respectively.      We are currently in the process of preparing these businesses for sale and identifying suitable
buyers. Although we are unable to estimate the ultimate gains or losses on the sales of these businesses at this time, we anticipate we will in the future incur certain non-cash charges related to the divestiture of Umbro. Upon the sale of the
business, or when the ultimate selling price becomes estimable, we expect to incur non-cash charges to liquidate certain balance sheet accounts, most significantly the cumulative translation adjustment and deferred tax assets related to Umbro. At
May 31, 2012, the cumulative translation adjustment was $110 million, net of tax, and the deferred tax asset was $32 million. We may also incur other cash and non-cash charges related to the divestiture of the Cole Haan and Umbro businesses.
      Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010       For fiscal
2011, the revenue growth at Converse was primarily driven by increased licensing revenue in China, as well as increased sales in the U.K. as we transitioned that market to direct distribution. Revenues for Cole Haan increased 12%, driven by
double-digit percentage growth in our wholesale operations as well as high-single-digit percentage growth in our Direct to Consumer operations. Revenues declined at NIKE Golf, where we experienced significant erosion in our Japan business following
the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.      For fiscal 2011, EBIT for our Other Businesses grew at a faster rate than revenues, primarily as a result of
more favorable foreign currency exchange impacts. Gross margin remained relatively flat for fiscal 2011, as the favorable impact from improved product mix was offset by a lower mix of licensee revenues. Selling and administrative expense as a
percentage of revenues remained relatively flat for fiscal 2011.       
   Corporate        
        Corporate consists largely of unallocated general and
administrative expenses, including expenses associated with centrally managed departments; depreciation and amortization related to our corporate headquarters; unallocated insurance, benefit and compensation programs, including stock-based
compensation; certain foreign currency gains and losses, including certain hedge gains and losses; corporate eliminations and other items.      Corporate
revenues primarily consist of certain intercompany revenue eliminations and foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Other Businesses but managed
through our central foreign exchange risk management program.      In addition to the foreign currency gains and losses recognized in Corporate revenues,
foreign currency results include all other foreign currency hedge results generated through our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program, other conversion gains and losses arising from re-measurement of monetary assets and
liabilities in non-functional currencies, and gains and losses resulting from the difference between actual foreign currency rates and standard rates used to record non-functional currency denominated product purchases within the NIKE Brand
geographic operating segments and Other Businesses.   

Table of Contents  

    Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011       For fiscal 2012, Corporate expense grew $111 million, mainly due to an increase of $49 million in performance-based compensation and a year-over-year net increase of $73 million from foreign currency impacts. These
foreign currency impacts were driven by a year-over-year increase in foreign currency net losses, arising from certain Euro/U.S. Dollar foreign currency hedges and the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities in various non-functional
currencies, net of related undesignated forward instruments, as a variety of foreign currencies weakened against the U.S. Dollar year-over-year. The above impacts were partially offset by a slight decrease in centrally managed operating
overhead expenses.             Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010
      For fiscal 2011, the decrease in Corporate expense was primarily driven by year-over-year net foreign currency gains generated by our centrally
managed foreign exchange risk management program. Also contributing to the decrease in Corporate expense for fiscal 2011 was a $54 million year-over-year reduction in stock options expense primarily due to a change in accelerated vesting provisions
that took effect in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and a lower estimated fair value for stock options granted in the current year. These benefits more than offset an increase in corporate operating overhead expenses, primarily driven by higher
wage-related expense.           Foreign Currency Exposures and Hedging Practices
           Overview    
      As a global company with significant operations outside the United States, in the normal course
of business we are exposed to risk arising from changes in currency exchange rates. Our primary foreign currency exposures arise from the recording of transactions denominated in non-functional currencies and the translation of foreign currency
denominated results of operations, financial position and cash flows, such as the Euro and Chinese Renminbi, into U.S. Dollars.      Our foreign
exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We manage global foreign exchange risk
centrally on a portfolio basis to address those risks that are material to NIKE, Inc. We manage these exposures by taking advantage of natural offsets and currency correlations that exist within the portfolio, and where practical, by hedging a
portion of the remaining material exposures using derivative instruments such as forward contracts and options. As described below, the implementation of our foreign currency adjustment program enhanced our ability to manage our foreign exchange
risk on a portfolio basis by increasing the natural offsets and currency correlation benefits that exist within our portfolio of aggregate foreign exchange exposure. Our hedging policy is designed to partially or entirely offset the impact of
exchange rate changes on the underlying net exposures being hedged. Where hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of current market rates on our consolidated financial statements; the length of the delay is dependent upon hedge
horizons. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes.           Transactional exposures        
  We conduct business in various currencies and have transactions which subject us to foreign currency risk. Our most significant transactional foreign currency
exposures are:       

Product Costs   NIKE s product costs are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies in the following ways:      

1.    
  Non-functional currency denominated product purchases:         

a.    
  Certain NIKE entities purchase product from the NIKE Trading Company ( NTC ), a wholly-owned centralized sourcing hub that buys NIKE branded products from external
factories, predominantly in U.S. Dollars. The NTC, whose functional currency is the U.S. Dollar, then sells the products to NIKE entities in their respective functional currencies. When the NTC sells to a NIKE entity with a different functional
currency, the result is a foreign currency exposure for the NTC.         

b.    
  Other NIKE entities purchase product directly from external factories in U.S. Dollars. These purchases generate a foreign currency exposure for those NIKE entities with a
functional currency other than the U.S. Dollar.         

In both purchasing scenarios, a weaker U.S. Dollar reduces the inventory cost incurred by NIKE whereas a stronger U.S. Dollar increases its cost.

2.    
  Factory input costs: In January 2012, NIKE implemented a foreign currency adjustment program with certain factories. The program is designed to more effectively manage foreign
currency risk by assuming certain of the factories  foreign currency exposures, some of which are natural offsets to our existing foreign currency exposures. Under this program, our payments to these factories are adjusted for rate fluctuations
in the basket of currencies ( factory currency exposure index ) in which the labor, materials and overhead costs incurred by the factories in the production of NIKE branded products ( factory input costs ) are denominated.

For the currency within the factory currency exposure indices that is the local or functional currency of the factory, the currency rate fluctuation affecting the product cost is
recorded within inventories and is recognized in cost of sales when the related product is sold to a third-party. All currencies within the indices, excluding the U.S. Dollar and the local or functional currency of the factory, are recognized
as embedded derivatives and are recorded at fair value through other expense (income), net. Refer to Note 16   Risk Management and Derivatives for additional detail.     

As an offset to the impacts of the fluctuating U.S. Dollar on our non-functional currency denominated product purchases described above, a strengthening U.S. Dollar
against the foreign currencies within the factory currency exposure indices decreases NIKE s U.S. Dollar inventory cost. Conversely, a weakening U.S. Dollar against the indexed foreign currencies increases our inventory cost.

Non-Functional Currency Denominated External Sales   A portion of our Western Europe and Central   Eastern Europe geography revenues are earned in
currencies other than the Euro (e.g. British Pound, Polish Zloty) but are recognized at a subsidiary that uses the Euro as its functional currency. These sales generate a foreign currency exposure.      

Other Costs   Non-functional currency denominated costs, such as endorsement contracts, intercompany royalties and other intercompany charges, generate
foreign currency risk to a lesser extent.          

Non-Functional Currency Denominated Monetary Assets and Liabilities   Our global subsidiaries have various assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and
payables, denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement, which may create fluctuations in other expense (income), net within our consolidated results of operations.

Table of Contents  

    Managing transactional exposures       Transactional exposures are managed on a portfolio basis within our foreign currency risk management program. We manage these exposures by taking advantage of natural offsets and currency correlations that exist
within the portfolio and may also elect to use currency forward and option contracts to hedge the remaining effect of exchange rate fluctuations on probable forecasted future cash flows, including certain product cost exposures, non-functional
currency denominated external sales and other costs described above. These are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging, except for hedges of the embedded derivatives component of the
product costs exposure as discussed below. As of May 31, 2012, there were outstanding currency forward contracts with maturities up to 24 months. The fair value of outstanding currency forward contracts at May 31, 2012 and 2011 was $183
million and $28 million in assets and $32 million and $136 million in liabilities, respectively. The effective portion of the changes in fair value of these instruments is reported in other comprehensive income ( OCI ), a component of
shareholders  equity, and reclassified into earnings in the same financial statement line item and in the same period or periods during which the related hedged transactions affect consolidated earnings. The ineffective portion is immediately
recognized in earnings as a component of other expense (income), net. Ineffectiveness was not material for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.      Certain currency forward contracts used to manage the foreign exchange exposure of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities subject to re-measurement and the embedded derivative contracts
discussed above are not formally designated as hedging instruments under the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. Accordingly, changes in fair value of these instruments are immediately recognized in other expense (income), net and are
intended to offset the foreign currency impact of the re-measurement of the related non-functional currency denominated asset or liability or the embedded derivative contract being hedged. The fair value of undesignated instruments was $55 million
and $9 million in assets and $20 million and $17 million in liabilities at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Refer to Note 6   Fair
Value Measurements and Note 16   Risk Management and Derivatives in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional description of how the above financial instruments are valued and recorded.   
   Translational exposures       Many of our foreign
subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we are required to translate the balance sheets, operational results and cash flows of
these subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars for consolidated reporting. The translation of foreign subsidiaries  non-U.S. Dollar denominated balance sheets into U.S. Dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation
adjustment to OCI within shareholders  equity. In the translation of our consolidated statements of income, a weaker U.S. Dollar in relation to foreign functional currencies benefits our consolidated earnings whereas a stronger
U.S. Dollar reduces our consolidated earnings. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated revenues was a benefit (detriment) of approximately $268 million and $(28) million for the years ended
May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our income before income taxes was a benefit (detriment) of approximately $74 million and $(16) million for the years ended May 31,
2012 and 2011, respectively.       Managing translational exposures       To minimize the impact of translating foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses into U.S. Dollars for consolidated reporting, certain foreign subsidiaries use excess cash to purchase U.S. Dollar
denominated available-for-sale investments. The variable future cash flows associated with the purchase and subsequent sale of these U.S. Dollar denominated securities at non-U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiaries creates a foreign
currency exposure that qualifies for hedge accounting under the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. We utilize forward contracts and/or options to mitigate the variability of the forecasted future purchases and sales of these
U.S. Dollar investments. The combination of the purchase and sale of the U.S. Dollar investment and the hedging instrument has the effect of partially offsetting the year-over-year foreign currency translation impact on net earnings in the
period the investments are sold. Hedges of available-for-sale investments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The fair value of instruments used in this manner at May 31, 2012 and 2011 was $27 million and $1 million in assets and $3 million
and $21 million in liabilities, respectively. The effective portion of the changes in fair value of these instruments is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in other expense (income), net in the period during which the hedged
available-for-sale investment is sold and affects earnings. Any ineffective portion is immediately recognized in earnings as a component of other expense (income), net. The impact of ineffective hedges was not material for any period presented.
     The combination of translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year change in foreign
currency related gains and losses included in other expense (income), net had an insignificant impact on our income before income taxes for the year ended May 31, 2012 and had a unfavorable impact of approximately $33 million for the year ended
May 31, 2011.      Refer to Note 6   Fair Value Measurements and Note 16   Risk Management and Derivatives in the accompanying Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional description of how the above financial instruments are valued and recorded.       Net
investments in foreign subsidiaries       We are also exposed to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on our investments in wholly-owned foreign
subsidiaries denominated in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar, which could adversely impact the U.S. Dollar value of these investments and therefore the value of future repatriated earnings. We hedge certain net investment positions in
Euro-functional currency foreign subsidiaries to mitigate the effects of foreign exchange fluctuations on these net investments. In accordance with the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging, the effective portion of the change in fair
value of the forward contracts designated as net investment hedges is recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Any ineffective portion is immediately recognized in earnings as a component
of other expense (income), net. The impact of ineffective hedges was not material for any period presented. To minimize credit risk, we have structured these net investment hedges to be generally less than six months in duration. Upon maturity, the
hedges are settled based on the current fair value of the forward contracts with the realized gain or loss remaining in OCI. There were no outstanding net investment hedges as of May 31, 2012. At May 31, 2011, the fair value was $23
million in liabilities. Cash flows from net investment hedge settlements totaled $22 million and $(23) million for the years ended May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources    
           Cash Flow Activity       Cash provided by operations was $1.9 billion for fiscal 2012 compared to
$1.8 billion for fiscal 2011. Our primary source of operating cash flow for fiscal 2012 was net income of $2.2 billion. Our working capital was a net cash outflow of $799 million for fiscal 2012 as compared to a net cash outflow of $708 million for
fiscal 2011. Our investments in working capital increased primarily due to an increase in inventory and prepaid expenses. Inventory at the end of fiscal 2012 increased 23% compared to fiscal 2011, primarily due to higher product input costs as well
as changes in product mix, which more than offset the favorable impact of changes in currency exchange rates. Inventory units for the NIKE Brand grew 10% compared to the prior year, driven by growth in futures orders and improved factory deliveries.
The increase in prepaid expenses was primarily driven by higher prepaid demand creation expenses around the European Football Championships and London Summer Olympics.      Cash provided by investing activities was $514 million during fiscal 2012, compared to a use of cash of $1,021 million for fiscal 2011. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to higher net sales and
maturities of short-term investments of $1,124 million (net of purchases) in fiscal 2012, compared to net purchases of $537 million (net of sales and maturities) during fiscal 2011.      Cash used by financing activities was $2.1 billion for fiscal 2012 compared to $2.0 billion for fiscal 2011. The increase in cash used by financing activities was primarily due to higher payments of long-term
debt, notes payable, and dividends, which was partially offset by an increase in the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.      In fiscal 2012, we
purchased 20.0 million shares of NIKE s class B common stock for $1.8 billion. These repurchases were made under the four-year, $5 billion program approved by our Board of Directors in September 2008, under which stock repurchase
activities commenced in December 2009. As of the end of fiscal 2012, we have repurchased 50.3 million shares for $4.1 billion under this program. We continue to expect funding of share repurchases will come from operating cash flow, excess
cash, and/or debt. The timing and the amount of shares purchased will be dictated by our capital needs and stock market conditions.   
   Capital Resources       On November 1, 2011,
we entered into a committed credit facility agreement with a syndicate of banks which provides for up to $1 billion of borrowings pursuant to a revolving credit facility with the option to increase borrowings to $1.5 billon with lender approval. The
facility matures in November 2016, with a one-year extension option prior to both the second and third anniversary of the closing date, provided that extensions shall not extend beyond November 1, 2018. This facility replaces the prior $1
billion committed credit facility agreement that would have expired in December 2012. As of and for the year ended May 31, 2012, we had no amounts outstanding under our new committed revolving credit facility.   
  We currently have long-term debt ratings of A+ and A1 from Standard and Poor s Corporation and Moody s Investor Services, respectively. If our long-term
debt rating were to decline, the facility fee and interest rate under our committed revolving credit facility would increase. Conversely, if our long-term debt rating were to improve, the facility fee and interest rate would decrease. Changes in our
long-term debt rating would not trigger acceleration of maturity of any then-outstanding borrowings or any future borrowings under the committed credit facility. Under this committed revolving credit facility, we have agreed to various covenants.
These covenants include limits on our disposal of fixed assets, the amount of debt secured by liens we may incur, as well as a minimum capitalization ratio. In the event we were to have any borrowings outstanding under this facility and failed to
meet any covenant, and were unable to obtain a waiver from a majority of the banks in the syndicate, any borrowings would become immediately due and payable. As of May 31, 2012, we were in full compliance with each of these covenants and
believe it is unlikely we will fail to meet any of these covenants in the foreseeable future.      Liquidity is also provided by our $1 billion commercial
paper program. As of and for the year ended May 31, 2012, no amounts were outstanding under this program. We may issue commercial paper from time to time during fiscal 2013 depending on general corporate needs. We currently have short-term debt
ratings of A1 and P1 from Standard and Poor s Corporation and Moody s Investor Services, respectively.      Our previous $760 million shelf
registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission expired during fiscal 2012. No debt securities were issued under that shelf registration prior to its expiry. We may issue debt securities under a new shelf registration in fiscal
2013 depending on general corporate needs.      As of May 31, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $3.8 billion, of
which $2.5 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash equivalents and short-term investments consist primarily of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S.
government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other investment grade fixed income securities. Our fixed income investments are exposed to both credit and interest rate risk. All of our investments are investment grade to minimize our
credit risk. While individual securities have varying durations, the average duration of our entire cash equivalents and short-term investment portfolio is less than 120 days as of May 31, 2012.   
  Despite recent uncertainties in the financial markets, to date we have not experienced difficulty accessing the credit markets or incurred higher interest costs.
Future volatility in the capital markets, however, may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments or affect our ability to access those markets. We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term
investments and cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described above, will be sufficient to meet our domestic and foreign capital needs in the foreseeable future.   
  We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies to manage our worldwide cash and deploy funds to locations where they are needed. We routinely
repatriate a portion of our foreign earnings for which U.S. taxes have previously been provided. We also indefinitely reinvest a significant portion of our foreign earnings, and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these
earnings. Should we require additional capital in the U.S., we may elect to repatriate indefinitely reinvested foreign funds or raise capital in the U.S. through debt. If we were to repatriate indefinitely reinvested foreign funds, we would be
required to accrue and pay additional U.S. taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. If we elect to raise capital in the U.S. through debt, we would incur additional interest expense.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       In connection with various contracts and agreements, we provide
routine indemnifications relating to the enforceability of intellectual property rights, coverage for legal issues that arise and other items where we are acting as the guarantor. Currently, we have several such agreements in place. However, based
on our historical experience and the estimated probability of future loss, we have determined that the fair value of such indemnifications is not material to our financial position or results of operations.   

Table of Contents  

    Contractual Obligations       Our significant long-term contractual obligations as of May 31, 2012 and significant endorsement contracts entered into through the date of this report are as follows:   

(1)   
   The amounts listed for endorsement contracts represent approximate amounts of base compensation and minimum guaranteed royalty fees we are obligated to pay athlete and sport
team endorsers of our products. Actual payments under some contracts may be higher than the amounts listed as these contracts provide for bonuses to be paid to the endorsers based upon athletic achievements and/or royalties on product sales in
future periods. Actual payments under some contracts may also be lower as these contracts include provisions for reduced payments if athletic performance declines in future periods.      

In addition to the cash payments, we are obligated to furnish our endorsers with NIKE product for their use. It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on this
product on an annual basis as the contracts generally do not stipulate a specific amount of cash to be spent on the product. The amount of product provided to the endorsers will depend on many factors, including general playing conditions, the
number of sporting events in which they participate, and our own decisions regarding product and marketing initiatives. In addition, the costs to design, develop, source, and purchase the products furnished to the endorsers are incurred over a
period of time and are not necessarily tracked separately from similar costs incurred for products sold to customers.          

(2)   
   We generally order product at least 4 to 5 months in advance of sale based primarily on futures orders received from customers. The amounts listed for product purchase
obligations represent agreements (including open purchase orders) to purchase products in the ordinary course of business that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. In some cases, prices are subject to change
throughout the production process. The reported amounts exclude product purchase liabilities included in accounts payable on the consolidated balance sheet as of May 31, 2012.      

(3)   
   Other amounts primarily include service and marketing commitments made in the ordinary course of business. The amounts represent the minimum payments required by legally
binding contracts and agreements that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders for non-product purchases. The reported amounts exclude those liabilities included in accounts payable or accrued liabilities on the consolidated
balance sheet as of May 31, 2012.         The total liability for uncertain tax positions was $285 million, excluding related interest
and penalties, at May 31, 2012. We are not able to reasonably estimate when or if cash payments of the long-term liability for uncertain tax positions will occur.      We also have the following outstanding short-term debt obligations as of May 31, 2012. Please refer to the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 7   Short-Term Borrowings and
Credit Lines) for further description and interest rates related to the short-term debt obligations listed below.       

(In millions)   
     
     Outstanding as   
   of May 31, 2012    

Notes payable, due at mutually agreed-upon dates within one year of issuance or on demand   
     
  $  
  108  

Payable to Sojitz America for the purchase of inventories, generally due 60 days after shipment of
goods from a foreign port   
     
  $  
  75  
       
    As of May 31, 2012, letters of credit of $138 million were outstanding, which were generally issued for the purchase of
inventory and as guarantees of the Company s performance under certain self-insurance and other programs.       Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
              In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued new guidance to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and International Financial
Reporting Standards. This new guidance, which became effective for us beginning March 1, 2012, amends current U.S. GAAP fair value measurement and disclosure guidance to include increased transparency around valuation inputs and investment
categorization. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.      In January 2010, the FASB
issued guidance to amend the disclosure requirements related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires additional disclosures about the different classes of assets and liabilities measured at fair value, the
valuation techniques and inputs used, the activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, and the transfers between Levels 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy. This guidance became effective for us beginning March 1, 2010, except
for disclosures relating to purchases, sales, issuances and settlements of Level 3 assets and liabilities, which became effective for us beginning June 1, 2011. As this guidance only requires expanded disclosures, the adoption did not have an
impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.      In October 2009, the FASB issued new standards that revised the guidance for
revenue recognition with multiple deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple-element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new
standards modify the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new standards became effective
for us beginning June 1, 2011. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

Table of Contents  

    Recently Issued Accounting Standards    
          In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements surrounding the nature of an entity s right to offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and
derivative instruments. This new guidance requires companies to disclose both gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to master
netting arrangements. This new guidance is effective for us beginning June 1, 2013. As this guidance only requires expanded disclosures, we do not anticipate the adoption will have an impact on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.      In September 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on the periodic testing of goodwill for impairment. This guidance will allow companies
to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that goodwill might be impaired and whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test required under current accounting standards. This new guidance is
effective for us beginning June 1, 2012. We do not expect the adoption will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.            In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income. This new guidance eliminates the current option to
report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of shareholders  equity. Companies will now be required to present the components of net income and other comprehensive income in either one continuous statement, referred to
as the statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. This guidance also required companies to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in both the statement
in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented. However, in December 2011, the FASB issued guidance which indefinitely defers the requirement related to the presentation of reclassification
adjustments. Both issuances on the presentation of comprehensive income are effective for us beginning June 1, 2012. As this guidance only amends the presentation of the components of comprehensive income, we do not anticipate the adoption will
have an impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.       
   Critical Accounting Policies        
      Our previous discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are
based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and
judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.   
  We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described below have the greatest potential impact on our financial
statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the estimates we use in applying the critical accounting policies. Certain of these
critical accounting policies affect working capital account balances, including the policies for revenue recognition, the allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, and contingent payments under endorsement contracts. These
policies require that we make estimates in the preparation of our financial statements as of a given date. However, since our business cycle is relatively short, actual results related to these estimates are generally known within the six-month
period following the financial statement date. Thus, these policies generally affect only the timing of reported amounts across two to three fiscal quarters.      Within the context of these critical accounting policies, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different amounts being reported.   
   Revenue Recognition       We record wholesale
revenues when title passes and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, based on the terms of sale. Title passes generally upon shipment or upon receipt by the customer depending on the country of the sale and the agreement
with the customer. Retail store revenues are recorded at the time of sale.      In some instances, we ship product directly from our supplier to the customer
and recognize revenue when the product is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Our revenues may fluctuate in cases when our customers delay accepting shipment of product for periods of up to several weeks.   
  In certain countries outside of the U.S., precise information regarding the date of receipt by the customer is not readily available. In these cases, we estimate
the date of receipt by the customer based upon historical delivery times by geographic location. On the basis of our tests of actual transactions, we have no indication that these estimates have been materially inaccurate historically.   
  As part of our revenue recognition policy, we record estimated sales returns, discounts and miscellaneous claims from customers as reductions to revenues at the
time revenues are recorded. We base our estimates on historical rates of product returns, discounts and claims, specific identification of outstanding claims and outstanding returns not yet received from customers, and estimated returns, discounts
and claims expected but not yet finalized with our customers. Actual returns, discounts and claims in any future period are inherently uncertain and thus may differ from our estimates. If actual or expected future returns, discounts and claims were
significantly greater or lower than the reserves we had established, we would record a reduction or increase to net revenues in the period in which we made such determination.       Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable       We make ongoing estimates relating to the
ability to collect our accounts receivable and maintain an allowance for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In determining the amount of the allowance, we consider our historical level of credit
losses and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. Since we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts
may differ from our estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger allowance might be required. In the event we determine that a smaller or larger allowance is
appropriate, we would record a credit or a charge to selling and administrative expense in the period in which such a determination is made.       Inventory Reserves       We also make ongoing estimates relating to the net realizable value of
inventories based upon our assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If we estimate that the net realizable value of our inventory is less than the cost of the inventory recorded on our books, we record a reserve equal to the difference
between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value. This reserve is recorded as a charge to cost of sales. If changes in market conditions result in reductions in the estimated net realizable value of our inventory below our
previous estimate, we would increase our reserve in the period in which we made such a determination and record a charge to cost of sales.   

Table of Contents  

    Contingent Payments under Endorsement Contracts    
  A significant portion of our demand creation expense relates to payments under endorsement contracts. In general, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over
the term of the contract. However, certain contract elements may be accounted for differently, based upon the facts and circumstances of each individual contract.      Some of the contracts provide for contingent payments to endorsers based upon specific achievements in their sports (e.g., winning a championship). We record selling and administrative expense for these amounts
when the endorser achieves the specific goal.      Some of the contracts provide for payments based upon endorsers maintaining a level of performance in
their sport over an extended period of time (e.g., maintaining a top ranking in a sport for a year). These amounts are reported in selling and administrative expense when we determine that it is probable that the specified level of performance will
be maintained throughout the period. In these instances, to the extent that actual payments to the endorser differ from our estimate due to changes in the endorser s athletic performance, increased or decreased selling and administrative
expense may be reported in a future period.      Some of the contracts provide for royalty payments to endorsers based upon a predetermined percentage of
sales of particular products. We expense these payments in cost of sales as the related sales occur. In certain contracts, we offer minimum guaranteed royalty payments. For contractual obligations for which we estimate we will not meet the minimum
guaranteed amount of royalty fees through sales of product, we record the amount of the guaranteed payment in excess of that earned through sales of product in selling and administrative expense uniformly over the remaining guarantee period.
      Property, Plant and Equipment and Definite-Lived Assets       Property, plant and equipment, including buildings, equipment, and computer hardware and software are recorded at cost (including, in some cases, the cost of internal labor) and are depreciated over the estimated
useful life. Changes in circumstances (such as technological advances or changes to our business operations) can result in differences between the actual and estimated useful lives. In those cases where we determine that the useful life of a
long-lived asset should be shortened, we increase depreciation expense over the remaining useful life to depreciate the asset s net book value to its salvage value.      We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the
asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group
exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the
carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies that would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as
the difference between the asset group s carrying amount and its estimated fair value.       Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible
Assets       We perform annual impairment tests on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or when
events occur or circumstances change that would, more likely than not, reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset with an indefinite life below its carrying value. Events or changes in circumstances that may trigger interim
impairment reviews include significant changes in business climate, operating results, planned investments in the reporting unit, planned divestitures or an expectation that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, among other factors. The
impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment
analysis. In step two of the analysis, we measure and record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over its implied fair value if any.   
  We generally base our measurement of the fair value of a reporting unit on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and the market
valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting unit based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting unit to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted
cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit s business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business
based on a comparison of the reporting unit to comparable publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. Significant estimates in the market valuation approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors
such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment, and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit.      Indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of acquired trade names and trademarks. In measuring the fair value for these intangible assets, we utilize the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes
that trade names and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the
appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital.      On May 31, 2012, we announced our intention to divest of the Cole Haan and Umbro
businesses. As of May 31, 2012, Cole Haan had no goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet, while Umbro had $70 million of goodwill and $164 million of trademark and other intangible assets. As of May 31,
2012, both asset groups for Cole Haan and Umbro did not quality as  assets-held-for-sale  under applicable accounting guidance. The decision to divest these businesses was deemed a triggering event to perform an impairment analysis of
Umbro s intangible assets at that date and was considered in our fourth quarter impairment analysis. We are currently in the process of preparing the businesses for divestiture and identifying potential acquirers. Therefore, we believe the
weighted use of discounted cash flows and the market valuation approach is the best method for determining the fair value of the Umbro reporting unit because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within our industry; and the blended
use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. As discussed above, the asset groups for Umbro did not qualify as  assets-held-for-sale  therefore, we did not consider
potential disposition costs or cumulative translation adjustments in the carrying value of the Umbro reporting unit in our fiscal 2012 fourth quarter impairment analysis. Because we are still in the preliminary stages of the divestiture process and
have not yet identified potential acquirers or the likely deal structure, these methods represent our best estimate of the fair value of the Umbro business. Our analysis determined there was no impairment of intangible assets or goodwill related to
Umbro. If the sales process indicates a fair value that is below the current carrying value of the reporting unit, an analysis would be required to determine if impairment charges exist at that point.   

Table of Contents  

    Fair Value Measurements       For financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, fair value is the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market
participant at the measurement date. In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair values of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our
Level 1 investments, including U.S. Treasury securities.     In the absence of active markets for identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve
developing assumptions based on market observable data, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active. This pricing
methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as commercial paper and bonds, U.S. agency securities and money market funds. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and
liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio.      A majority of our available-for-sale securities are priced by
pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments, as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs without applying significant adjustments in their pricing. Observable inputs
include broker quotes, interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities and credit risks. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These
controls include an analysis of period-over-period fluctuations and comparison to another independent pricing vendor.       Hedge
Accounting for Derivatives       We use forward and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated foreign currency exchange transactions as well as
certain non-functional monetary assets and liabilities. When the specific criteria to qualify for hedge accounting has been met, changes in the fair value of contracts hedging probable forecasted future cash flows are recorded in other comprehensive
income, rather than net income, until the underlying hedged transaction affects net income. In most cases, this results in gains and losses on hedge derivatives being released from other comprehensive income into net income some time after the
maturity of the derivative. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is that the forward and option contracts amount should not be in excess of specifically identified anticipated transactions. By their very nature, our estimates of
anticipated transactions may fluctuate over time and may ultimately vary from actual transactions. When anticipated transaction estimates or actual transaction amounts decline below hedged levels, or if it is no longer probable that a forecasted
transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter, we are required to reclassify the cumulative changes in fair values of the over-hedged portion of the related
hedge contract from other comprehensive income to other expense (income), net during the quarter in which such changes occur.      We use forward contracts
to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. The change in fair value of the forward contracts hedging our net investments
is reported in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders  equity, to the extent effective, to offset the foreign currency translation adjustments on those investments. As the
value of our underlying net investments in wholly-owned international subsidiaries is known at the time a hedge is placed, the designated hedge is matched to the portion of our net investment at risk. Accordingly, the variability involved in net
investment hedges is substantially less than that of other types of hedge transactions and we do not expect any material ineffectiveness. We consider, on a quarterly basis, the need to redesignate existing hedge relationships based on changes in the
underlying net investment. Should the level of our net investment decrease below hedged levels, the cumulative change in fair value of the over-hedged portion of the related hedge contract would be reported directly to earnings in the period in
which changes occur.       Stock-based Compensation       We account for stock-based compensation by estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires
the input of highly subjective assumptions including volatility. Expected volatility is estimated based on implied volatility in market traded options on our common stock with a term greater than one year, along with other factors. Our decision to
use implied volatility was based on the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. If factors change and we
use different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period.   
   Taxes       We record valuation allowances
against our deferred tax assets, when necessary. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carry-forwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our
deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset, which increases our income tax expense in the
period when such determination is made.      In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be
indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S., thus reducing our overall income tax expense. The amount of earnings designated as indefinitely reinvested offshore is based upon the actual deployment of such earnings in our offshore assets and our
expectations of the future cash needs of our U.S. and foreign entities. Income tax considerations are also a factor in determining the amount of foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested offshore.   
  We carefully review all factors that drive the ultimate disposition of foreign earnings determined to be reinvested offshore and apply stringent standards to
overcome the presumption of repatriation. Despite this approach, because the determination involves our future plans and expectations of future events, the possibility exists that amounts declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore may ultimately
be repatriated. For instance, the actual cash needs of our U.S. entities may exceed our current expectations, or the actual cash needs of our foreign entities may be less than our current expectations. This would result in additional income tax
expense in the year we determined that amounts were no longer indefinitely reinvested offshore. Conversely, our approach may also result in a determination that accumulated foreign earnings (for which U.S. income taxes have been provided) will be
indefinitely reinvested offshore. In this case, our income tax expense would be reduced in the year of such determination.      On an interim basis, we
estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. This estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year-to-date pre-tax income excluding infrequently occurring or unusual items, to determine the year-to-date tax
expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during
the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs.
     On a quarterly basis, we reevaluate the probability that a tax position will be effectively sustained and the appropriateness of the amount recognized
for uncertain tax positions based on factors including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, settled audit issues and new audit activity. Changes in our assessment may result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional
charge to the tax provision in the period our assessment changes. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense.   

Table of Contents  

    Other Contingencies       In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings regarding contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights, and a variety of other matters. We record
contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us, including related legal costs, when a loss is assessed to be probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Assessing probability of loss and estimating probable losses requires
analysis of multiple factors, including in some cases judgments about the potential actions of third-party claimants and courts. Recorded contingent liabilities are based on the best information available and actual losses in any future period are
inherently uncertain. If future adjustments to estimated probable future losses or actual losses exceed our recorded liability for such claims, we would record additional charges as other expense (income), net during the period in which the actual
loss or change in estimate occurred. In addition to contingent liabilities recorded for probable losses, we disclose contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed the recorded liability.
While we cannot predict the outcome of pending legal matters with certainty, we do not believe any currently identified claim, proceeding or litigation, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material impact on our results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk          
  In the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to
fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. It is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for
speculative purposes.      We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding
activities. Our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We use forward exchange
contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. We also use forward
contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. Where hedged, our program has the effect of delaying
the impact of current market rates on our consolidated financial statements dependent upon hedge horizons.      When we begin hedging exposures, the type and
duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. Generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within 12 to 18 months. The majority of the contracts expiring in
more than 12 months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory. When intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. Hedged transactions are principally denominated in Euros, British Pounds and Japanese Yen. See
section  Foreign Currency Exposures and Hedging Practices  under Item 7 for additional detail.      Our earnings are also exposed to movements
in short and long-term market interest rates. Our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we
maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps.       
   Market Risk Measurement        
      We monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of
techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and Value-at-Risk ( VaR ). Our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts,
interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate Japanese Yen denominated debt.      We use VaR to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. The VaR determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of
these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. The VaR model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. There are various modeling techniques that can be used in the VaR computation. Our computations are
based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a  variance/co-variance  technique). These interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding
one year period. The value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. We adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the  delta  and
 gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. This calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional
currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments.      The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. It also does
not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. Actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages,
timing and other factors.      The estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived
using the VaR model, was $21 million and $33 million at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The VaR decreased year-over-year primarily as a result of decreased foreign currency volatilities at May 31, 2012. Such a hypothetical loss in
fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. The average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $87
million and $79 million during fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively.      The instruments not included in the VaR are intercompany loans denominated in
non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate Japanese Yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. Intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation.
Furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the VaR calculation above. Therefore, we consider the interest rate and
foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows.      Details of third-party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. The table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted average
interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates as of May 31, 2012.   

Table of Contents  

The fixed interest rate Japanese Yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our Japanese
subsidiaries. Accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary.   

ITEM 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplemental Data          
  Management of NIKE, Inc. is responsible for the information and representations contained in this report. The financial statements have been prepared in conformity
with the generally accepted accounting principles we considered appropriate in the circumstances and include some amounts based on our best estimates and judgments. Other financial information in this report is consistent with these financial
statements.      Our accounting systems include controls designed to reasonably assure assets are safeguarded from unauthorized use or disposition and
provide for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These systems are supplemented by the selection and training of qualified financial personnel and an organizational structure providing
for appropriate segregation of duties.      An Internal Audit department reviews the results of its work with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,
presently consisting of three outside directors. The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm and reviews with the independent registered public accounting firm, management and the
internal audit staff, the scope and the results of the annual examination, the effectiveness of the accounting control system and other matters relating to the financial affairs of NIKE as the Audit Committee deems appropriate. The independent
registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have full access to the Committee, with and without the presence of management, to discuss any appropriate matters.   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
          Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and Rule 15d-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets of the Company that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      While
 reasonable assurance  is a high level of assurance, it does not mean absolute assurance. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect every misstatement and instance of fraud.
Controls are susceptible to manipulation, especially in instances of fraud caused by the collusion of two or more people, including our senior management. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, our management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based upon the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on the
results of our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of May 31, 2012.   
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited (1) the consolidated financial statements and (2) the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2012, as stated in their report herein.       

Mark G. Parker   
     
   Donald W. Blair    
 
   President and Chief Executive Officer   
     
   Chief Financial Officer    

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
          To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of NIKE, Inc.:      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NIKE, Inc. and its subsidiaries at May 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the appendix appearing
under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, included in Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule,
and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.      / S / P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP     Portland, Oregon      July 24, 2012   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements Of Income    

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.    

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheets    

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.    

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
        
     The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.    

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity    

Table of Contents  

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.    

Table of Contents  

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

Table of Contents  

NOTE 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
            Description of Business       NIKE, Inc. is a worldwide leader in the design, marketing and
distribution of athletic and sports-inspired footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. Wholly-owned NIKE subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes dress and casual shoes, handbags, accessories and coats;
Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and
Umbro International Limited, which designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for the sport of football (soccer).       Basis of Consolidation       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NIKE,
Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company ). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.   
   Recognition of Revenues       Wholesale revenues
are recognized when title and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, based on the terms of sale. This occurs upon shipment or upon receipt by the customer depending on the country of the sale and the agreement with the
customer. Retail store revenues are recorded at the time of sale. Provisions for sales discounts, returns and miscellaneous claims from customers are recorded as a reduction to revenue at the time of sale. As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, the
Company s reserve balances for sales discounts, returns and miscellaneous claims were $480 million and $423 million, respectively.   
   Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and
handling costs are expensed as incurred and included in cost of sales.       Demand Creation Expense    
  Demand creation expense consists of advertising and promotion costs, including costs of endorsement contracts, television, digital and print advertising, brand
events, and retail brand presentation. Advertising production costs are expensed the first time an advertisement is run. Advertising placement costs are expensed in the month the advertising appears, while costs related to brand events are expensed
when the event occurs. Costs related to retail brand presentation are expensed when the presentation is completed and delivered.      A significant amount of
the Company s promotional expenses result from payments under endorsement contracts. Accounting for endorsement payments is based upon specific contract provisions. Generally, endorsement payments are expensed on a straight-line basis over the
term of the contract after giving recognition to periodic performance compliance provisions of the contracts. Prepayments made under contracts are included in prepaid expenses or other assets depending on the period to which the prepayment applies.
     Some of the contracts provide for contingent payments to endorsers based upon specific achievements in their sports (e.g., winning a championship). The
Company records selling and administrative expense for these amounts when the endorser achieves the specific goal.      Some of the contracts provide for
payments based upon endorsers maintaining a level of performance in their sport over an extended period of time (e.g., maintaining a top ranking in a sport for a year). These amounts are recorded in selling and administrative expense when the
Company determines that it is probable that the specified level of performance will be maintained throughout the period. In these instances, to the extent that actual payments to the endorser differ from our estimate due to changes in the
endorser s athletic performance, increased or decreased selling and administrative expense may be recorded in a future period.      Some of the
contracts provide for royalty payments to endorsers based upon a predetermined percentage of sales of particular products. The Company expenses these payments in cost of sales as the related sales occur. In certain contracts, the Company offers
minimum guaranteed royalty payments. For contractual obligations for which the Company estimates it will not meet the minimum guaranteed amount of royalty fees through sales of product, the Company records the amount of the guaranteed payment in
excess of that earned through sales of product in selling and administrative expense uniformly over the remaining guarantee period.      Through cooperative
advertising programs, the Company reimburses retail customers for certain costs of advertising the Company s products. The Company records these costs in selling and administrative expense at the point in time when it is obligated to its
customers for the costs, which is when the related revenues are recognized. This obligation may arise prior to the related advertisement being run.   
  Total advertising and promotion expenses were $2,711 million, $2,448 million, and $2,356 million for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Prepaid advertising and promotion expenses recorded in prepaid expenses and other assets totaled $309 million and $291 million at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       Cash and Equivalents       Cash and equivalents represent cash and short-term, highly liquid
investments with maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for cash and equivalents approximate fair value.       Short-Term Investments       Short-term investments consist of highly liquid investments, including
commercial paper, U.S. treasury, U.S. agency, and corporate debt securities, with maturities over three months from the date of purchase. Debt securities that the Company has the ability and positive intent to hold to maturity are carried at
amortized cost. At May 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company did not hold any short-term investments that were classified as trading or held-to-maturity.   
  At May 31, 2012 and 2011, short-term investments consisted of available-for-sale securities. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses reported, net of tax, in other comprehensive income, unless unrealized losses are determined to be other than temporary. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification. The
Company considers all available-for-sale securities, including those with maturity dates beyond 12 months, as available to support current operational liquidity needs and therefore classifies all securities with maturity dates beyond three months at
the date of purchase as current assets within short-term investments on the consolidated balance sheets.      See Note 6   Fair Value Measurements for
more information on the Company s short-term investments.       Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable    
  Accounts receivable consists primarily of amounts receivable from customers. We make ongoing estimates relating to the collectability of our

Table of Contents  

accounts receivable and maintain an allowance for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In determining the amount of the allowance, we consider
our historical level of credit losses and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. Accounts receivable with anticipated collection dates greater than 12 months from the balance sheet
date and related allowances are considered non-current and recorded in other assets. The allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable was $95 million and $124 million at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of which $45 million and $50
million, respectively, was classified as long-term and recorded in other assets.       Inventory Valuation    
  Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market and valued on an average cost basis.       Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation       Property, plant and equipment are recorded at
cost. Depreciation for financial reporting purposes is determined on a straight-line basis for buildings and leasehold improvements over 2 to 40 years and for machinery and equipment over 2 to 15 years.   
  Depreciation and amortization of assets used in manufacturing, warehousing and product distribution are recorded in cost of sales. Depreciation and amortization of
other assets are recorded in selling and administrative expense.       Software Development Costs    
   Internal Use Software . Expenditures for major software purchases and software developed for internal use are capitalized and amortized over a 2 to 10 year
period on a straight-line basis. The Company s policy provides for the capitalization of external direct costs of materials and services associated with developing or obtaining internal use computer software. In addition, the Company also
capitalizes certain payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with internal use computer software projects. The amount of capitalizable payroll costs with respect to these employees is limited to the time directly
spent on such projects. Costs associated with preliminary project stage activities, training, maintenance and all other post-implementation stage activities are expensed as incurred.       Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed . Development costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as an integral part of a product are subject to capitalization
beginning when a product s technological feasibility has been established and ending when a product is available for general release to customers. In most instances, the Company s products are released soon after technological feasibility
has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent to achievement of technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally most software development costs have been expensed as incurred.   
   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The Company
reviews the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an
impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in
the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, the Company would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the
projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the
asset group is not recoverable, the Company will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the
difference between the asset group s carrying amount and its estimated fair value.       Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill
      The Company performs annual impairment tests on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or
when events occur or circumstances change that would, more likely than not, reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset with an indefinite life below its carrying value. Events or changes in circumstances that may trigger
interim impairment reviews include significant changes in business climate, operating results, planned investments in the reporting unit, planned divestitures or an expectation that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, among other factors.
The impairment test requires the Company to estimate the fair value of its reporting units. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and the Company proceeds to
step two of the impairment analysis. In step two of the analysis, the Company measures and records an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over its implied fair value if any.   
  The Company generally bases its measurement of the fair value of a reporting unit on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and the
market valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting unit based on the present value of the cash flows that the Company expects the reporting unit to generate in the future. The Company s
significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: its weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit s business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach
indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the reporting unit to comparable publicly traded companies in similar lines of business. Significant estimates in the market valuation approach model include identifying similar
companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment, and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit.   
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of acquired trade names and trademarks. In measuring the fair value for these intangible assets, the Company
utilizes the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that trade names and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires the
Company to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital.      On May 31,
2012, the Company announced its intention to divest of the Cole Haan and Umbro businesses. As of May 31, 2012, Cole Haan had no goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets on the Company s balance sheet, while Umbro had $70 million of
goodwill and $164 million of trademark and other intangible assets. As of May 31, 2012, both asset groups for Cole Haan and Umbro did not quality as  assets-held-for-sale  under applicable accounting guidance. The decision to divest
these businesses was deemed a triggering event to perform an impairment analysis of Umbro s intangible assets at that date and was considered in the Company s fourth quarter impairment analysis. The Company is currently in the process of
preparing the businesses for divestiture and identifying potential acquirers. Therefore, the Company believes the weighted use of discounted cash flows and the market valuation approach is the best method for determining the fair value of the Umbro
reporting unit because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within its industry; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. As discussed above,
the asset groups for Umbro did not qualify as  assets-held-for-sale  therefore, the Company did not consider potential disposition costs or cumulative translation adjustments in the carrying value of the Umbro reporting unit in its fiscal
2012 fourth quarter impairment analysis. Because the Company is still in the preliminary stages of   

Table of Contents  

the divestiture process and has not yet identified potential acquirers or the likely deal structure, these methods represent management s best estimate of the fair value of the Umbro
business. The Company s analysis determined there was no impairment of intangible assets or goodwill related to Umbro. If the sales process indicates a fair value that is below the current carrying value of the reporting unit, an analysis would
be required to determine if impairment charges exist at that point.       Operating Leases    
  The Company leases retail store space, certain distribution and warehouse facilities and office space under operating leases. Operating lease agreements may contain
rent escalation clauses, rent holidays or certain landlord incentives, including tenant improvement allowances. Rent expense for non-cancelable operating leases with scheduled rent increases or landlord incentives are recognized on a straight-line
basis over the lease term, beginning with the effective lease commencement date, which is generally the date in which the Company takes possession of or controls the physical use of the property. Certain leases also provide for contingent rents,
which are determined as a percentage of sales in excess of specified levels. A contingent rent liability is recognized together with the corresponding rent expense when specified levels have been achieved or when the Company determines that
achieving the specified levels during the period is probable.       Fair Value Measurements    
  The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including derivatives and available-for-sale securities. Fair
value is the price the Company would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. The Company uses a three-level hierarchy established by the FASB that
prioritizes fair value measurements based on the types of inputs used for the various valuation techniques (market approach, income approach, and cost approach).      The levels of hierarchy are described below:       

Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.      

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; these include quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.          

Level 3: Unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data available, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions.
        The Company s assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires
judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the most conservative level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.   
  Pricing vendors are utilized for certain Level 1 or Level 2 investments. These vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable
inputs without applying significant adjustments in their pricing. Observable inputs include broker quotes, interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities and credit risks. The Company s fair value
processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include an analysis of period-over-period fluctuations and comparison to another independent pricing vendor.   
  Refer to Note 6   Fair Value Measurements for additional information.       Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Currency Transactions       Adjustments resulting from
translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. Dollars are included in the foreign currency translation adjustment, a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders  equity.   
  The Company s global subsidiaries have various assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than their
functional currency. These balance sheet items are subject to remeasurement, the impact of which is recorded in other expense (income), net, within the consolidated statements of income.       Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities       The Company uses derivative financial
instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. All derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are either recognized
in other comprehensive income (a component of shareholders  equity), debt or net income depending on the nature of the underlying exposure, whether the derivative is formally designated as a hedge, and, if designated, the extent to which the
hedge is effective. The Company classifies the cash flows at settlement from derivatives in the same category as the cash flows from the related hedged items. For undesignated hedges and designated cash flow hedges, this is within the cash provided
by operations component of the consolidated statements of cash flows. For designated net investment hedges, this is generally within the cash provided or used by investing activities component of the cash flow statement. As our fair value hedges are
receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps, the cash flows associated with these derivative instruments are periodic interest payments while the swaps are outstanding. These cash flows are reflected within the cash provided by operations
component of the cash flow statement.      See Note 16   Risk Management and Derivatives for more information on the Company s risk management
program and derivatives.       Stock-Based Compensation       The Company estimates the fair value of options and stock appreciation rights granted under the NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1990 Plan ) and employees  purchase rights under the
Employee Stock Purchase Plans ( ESPPs ) using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company recognizes this fair value, net of estimated forfeitures, as selling and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income over
the vesting period using the straight-line method.      See Note 11   Common Stock and Stock-Based Compensation for more information on the
Company s stock programs.       Income Taxes       The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary
differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount management believes is more likely than not to be realized. United States
income taxes are provided currently on financial statement earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that are expected to be repatriated. The Company determines annually the amount of undistributed non-U.S. earnings to invest indefinitely in its non-U.S.
operations.      The Company recognizes a tax benefit from uncertain tax positions in the financial statements only when it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained upon examination by relevant tax authorities. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense.      See Note 9   Income Taxes for further discussion.   

Table of Contents  

    Earnings Per Share       Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by adjusting
weighted average outstanding shares, assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive stock options and awards.      See Note 12   Earnings Per Share for
further discussion.       Management Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, including estimates relating to assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.       Recently Adopted Accounting Standards       In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued new guidance to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and International Financial
Reporting Standards. This new guidance, which became effective for the Company beginning March 1, 2012, amends current U.S. GAAP fair value measurement and disclosure guidance to include increased transparency around valuation inputs and
investment categorization. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations.   
  In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance to amend the disclosure requirements related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires
additional disclosures about the different classes of assets and liabilities measured at fair value, the valuation techniques and inputs used, the activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, and the transfers between Levels 1, 2, and 3 of the fair
value measurement hierarchy (as described in Note 6.  Fair Value Measurements). This guidance became effective for the Company beginning March 1, 2010, except for disclosures relating to purchases, sales, issuances and settlements of Level
3 assets and liabilities, which became effective for the Company beginning June 1, 2011. As this guidance only requires expanded disclosures, the adoption did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial position or results
of operations.      In October 2009, the FASB issued new standards that revised the guidance for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables. These new
standards impact the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple-element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new standards modify the manner in which the transaction
consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new standards became effective for the Company beginning June 1, 2011. The
adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations.       Recently
Issued Accounting Standards       In December 2011, the FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements surrounding the nature of an entity s
right to offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. This new guidance requires companies to disclose both gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in
the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to master netting arrangements. This new guidance is effective for the Company beginning June 1, 2013. As this guidance only requires expanded disclosures, the Company
does not anticipate the adoption will have an impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.      In September 2011, the FASB issued
updated guidance on the periodic testing of goodwill for impairment. This guidance will allow companies to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that goodwill might be impaired and whether it is necessary to perform
the two-step goodwill impairment test required under current accounting standards. This new guidance is effective for the Company beginning June 1, 2012. The Company does not expect the adoption will have a material effect on its consolidated
financial position or results of operations.      In June 2011, the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income. This new guidance
eliminates the current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of shareholders  equity. Companies will now be required to present the components of net income and other comprehensive income in either one
continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. This guidance also required companies to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income
by component in both the statement in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented. However, in December 2011, the FASB issued guidance which indefinitely defers the requirement related to the
presentation of reclassification adjustments. Both issuances on the presentation of comprehensive income are effective for the Company beginning June 1, 2012. As this guidance only amends the presentation of the components of comprehensive
income, the Company does not anticipate the adoption will have an impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.       

NOTE 2   Inventories   

Inventory balances of $3,350 million and
$2,715 million at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were substantially all finished goods.   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 3   Property, Plant and Equipment    
       Property, plant and equipment included
the following:       
    Capitalized interest was not material for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010.   
    NOTE 4   Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill    
       The following table summarizes the
Company s identifiable intangible asset balances as of May 31, 2012 and 2011:       
        The effect of foreign exchange fluctuations for the year ended
May 31, 2012 decreased unamortized intangible assets by approximately $2 million, resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the British Pound.      Amortization expense, which is included in selling and administrative expense, was $22 million, $16 million, and $14 million for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The estimated
amortization expense for intangible assets subject to amortization for each of the years ending May 31, 2013 through May 31, 2017 are as follows: 2013: $21 million; 2014: $19 million; 2015: $15 million; 2016: $14 million; 2017: $13
million.          All goodwill balances are included in the Company s  Other 
category for segment reporting purposes. The following table summarizes the Company s goodwill balance as of May 31, 2012 and 2011:       

(1)   
   In March 2011, Umbro acquired the remaining 51% of the exclusive licensee and distributor of the Umbro brand in France for approximately $15 million.

(2)   
   Other consists of foreign currency translation adjustments on Umbro goodwill.      

Table of Contents  

NOTE 5   Accrued Liabilities    
       Accrued liabilities included the
following:       

NOTE 6   Fair Value Measurements    
       The following table presents information
about the Company s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair
value. Refer to Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional detail regarding the Company s fair value measurement methodology.       

Table of Contents  

Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange
forwards, embedded derivatives and interest rate swap contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is determined using observable market inputs such as the daily market foreign currency rates, forward pricing curves, currency volatilities,
currency correlations and interest rates, and considers nonperformance risk of the Company and that of its counterparties. Adjustments relating to these nonperformance risks were not material at May 31, 2012 or 2011. Refer to Note 16  
Risk Management and Derivatives for additional detail.      Available-for-sale securities are comprised of investments in U.S. Treasury and agency
securities, money market funds, corporate commercial paper and bonds. These securities are valued using market prices on both active markets (Level 1) and less active markets (Level 2). Pricing vendors are utilized for certain Level 1 or Level 2
investments. These vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs without applying significant adjustments in their pricing. Observable inputs include broker quotes, interest rates and yield curves
observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities and credit risks.      The Company s Level 3 assets are comprised of investments in certain
non-marketable preferred stock. These investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. These Level 3 investments are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. Changes in Level 3 investment assets were immaterial
during the year ended May 31, 2012. As of May 31, 2011, the Company had no Level 3 assets and liabilities.      No transfers among the levels
within the fair value hierarchy occurred during the years ended May 31, 2012 or 2011.      As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had no assets
or liabilities that were required to be measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.       Short-Term Investments    
  As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, short-term investments consisted of available-for-sale securities. As of May 31, 2012, the Company held $1,129 million of
available-for-sale securities with maturity dates within one year from purchase date and $311 million with maturity dates over one year and less than five years from purchase date within short-term investments. As of May 31, 2011, the Company
held $2,253 million of available-for-sale securities with maturity dates within one year from purchase date and $330 million with maturity dates over one year and less than five years from purchase date within short-term investments.   
         
  Short-term investments classified as available-for-sale consist of the following at fair value:   
   
        Included in interest expense, net was interest income of $30
million for each of the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, related to cash and equivalents and short-term investments.      For fair value
information regarding notes payable and long-term debt, refer to Note 7   Short-Term Borrowings and Credit Lines and Note 8   Long-Term Debt.   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 7   Short-Term Borrowings and Credit Lines    
       Notes payable and interest-bearing
accounts payable to Sojitz Corporation of America ( Sojitz America ) as of May 31, 2012 and 2011, are summarized below:       

(1)   
   Weighted average interest rate includes non-interest bearing overdrafts.          
  The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for notes payable approximate fair value.      The Company purchases through Sojitz America certain athletic footwear, apparel and equipment it acquires from non-U.S. suppliers. These purchases are for the Company s operations outside of the United States,
Europe and Japan. Accounts payable to Sojitz America are generally due up to 60 days after shipment of goods from the foreign port. The interest rate on such accounts payable is the 60-day London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) as of the
beginning of the month of the invoice date, plus 0.75%.      As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had no amounts outstanding under its commercial
paper program.      In November 2011, the Company entered into a committed credit facility agreement with a syndicate of banks which provides for up to $1
billion of borrowings pursuant to a revolving credit facility with the option to increase borrowings to $1.5 billion with lender approval. The facility matures in November 2016, with a one-year extension option prior to both the second and third
anniversary of the closing date, provided that extensions shall not extend beyond November 1, 2018. This facility replaces the prior $1 billion committed credit facility agreement that would have expired in December 2012. Based on the
Company s current long-term senior unsecured debt ratings of A+ and A1 from Standard and Poor s Corporation and Moody s Investor Services, respectively, the interest rate charged on any outstanding borrowings would be the prevailing
LIBOR plus 0.56%. The facility fee is 0.065% of the total commitment. Under this committed credit facility, the Company must maintain, among other things, certain minimum specified financial ratios with which the Company was in compliance at
May 31, 2012. No amounts were outstanding under this facility as of May 31, 2012 or 2011.       
    NOTE 8   Long-Term Debt    
       Long-term debt, net of unamortized
premiums and discounts and swap fair value adjustments, is comprised of the following:       

(1)   
   For each of these notes, except the $50 million note maturing in October 1, 2013, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby the Company receives
fixed interest payments at the same rate as the notes and pays variable interest payments based on the six-month LIBOR plus a spread. Each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding note. At May 31, 2012, the
interest rates payable on these swap agreements ranged from approximately 0.6% to 1.0%.          

(2)   
   NIKE Logistics YK assumed a total of  13.0 billion in loans as part of its agreement to purchase a distribution center in Japan, which serves as collateral for the loans.
These loans mature in equal quarterly installments during the period August 20, 2001 through November 20, 2020.          
  The scheduled maturity of long-term debt in each of the years ending May 31, 2013 through 2017 are $49 million, $59 million, $9 million,
$109 million and $9 million, respectively, at face value.      The fair value of the Company s long-term debt, including the current portion,
was approximately $283 million at May 31, 2012 and $482 million at May 31, 2011. The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based upon quoted prices of similar instruments (level 2).   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 9   Income Taxes    
       Income before income taxes is as follows:
      
    The provision for income taxes is as follows:       
    A reconciliation from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate follows:   
   
        The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 50 basis points
higher than the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 primarily due to changes in uncertain tax positions, partially offset by a reduction in the effective tax rate on operations outside of the United States as a result of changes in geographical mix
of foreign earnings. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 80 basis points higher than the effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 primarily due to the change in geographic mix of earnings. A larger percentage of our earnings in fiscal 2011 were
attributable to operations in the U.S., where the statutory tax rate is generally higher than the effective tax rate on operations outside of the U.S. This impact was partially offset by changes to uncertain tax positions.   

Table of Contents  

   Deferred tax assets and (liabilities) are comprised of the following:   
   
    The following is a reconciliation of the changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and
penalties:       
        As of May 31, 2012, the total gross unrecognized tax
benefits, excluding related interest and penalties, were $285 million, $165 million of which would affect the Company s effective tax rate if recognized in future periods.      The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The liability for payment of interest and penalties increased $17 million, $10 million, and $6 million during the
years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions were $108 million and $91 million, respectively (excluding federal benefit).   
  The Company is subject to taxation primarily in the U.S., China, the Netherlands, and Brazil, as well as various state and other foreign jurisdictions. The Company
has concluded substantially all U.S. federal income tax matters through fiscal year 2010. The Company is currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2011 and 2012 tax years. The Company s major foreign jurisdictions, China,
the Netherlands and Brazil, have concluded substantially all income tax matters through calendar 2001, fiscal 2006 and calendar 2004, respectively. The Company estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total gross unrecognized tax benefits
could decrease by up to $58 million within the next 12 months as a result of resolutions of global tax examinations and the expiration of applicable statutes of limitations.      The Company has indefinitely reinvested approximately $5.5 billion of the cumulative undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. Such earnings would be subject to U.S. taxation if repatriated to the
U.S. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with the indefinitely reinvested undistributed earnings at May 31, 2012 is $1.8 billion.      A portion of the Company s foreign operations are benefitting from tax holidays that will phase out in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2021. These tax holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met or may be
terminated early if certain conditions are not met. The decrease in income tax expense for the year ended May 31, 2012 as a result of these arrangements was approximately $103 million ($0.22 per diluted share) and $36 million ($0.07 per diluted
share) for the year ended May 31, 2011.      Deferred tax assets at May 31, 2012 and 2011 were reduced by a valuation allowance relating to tax
benefits of certain subsidiaries with operating losses. The net change in the valuation allowance was an increase of $30 million and $15 million for the years ended May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

   The Company has recorded deferred tax assets of $216 million at May 31, 2012 for foreign tax credit carry-forwards
with expiration dates between 2020 and 2022.      The Company has available domestic and foreign loss carry-forwards of $247 million at May 31, 2012. Such
losses, if not utilized, will expire as follows:       
    During the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, income tax benefits attributable to employee stock-based compensation
transactions of $120 million, $68 million, and $57 million, respectively, were allocated to shareholders  equity.   
    NOTE 10   Redeemable Preferred Stock    
           Sojitz America is the sole owner of the Company s authorized Redeemable Preferred Stock, $1 par value, which is redeemable at the option of Sojitz America or the Company at par value aggregating $0.3 million.
A cumulative dividend of $0.10 per share is payable annually on May 31 and no dividends may be declared or paid on the common stock of the Company unless dividends on the Redeemable Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full. There
have been no changes in the Redeemable Preferred Stock in the three years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. As the holder of the Redeemable Preferred Stock, Sojitz America does not have general voting rights but does have the right to vote as
a separate class on the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, on merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of the Company or on the sale or assignment of the NIKE trademark for athletic footwear
sold in the United States.       
    NOTE 11   Common Stock and Stock-Based Compensation    
           The authorized number of shares of Class A Common Stock, no par value, and Class B Common Stock, no par value, are 175 million and 750 million, respectively. Each share of Class A Common Stock
is convertible into one share of Class B Common Stock. Voting rights of Class B Common Stock are limited in certain circumstances with respect to the election of directors. There are no differences in the dividend and liquidation preferences or
participation rights of the Class A and Class B common stockholders.      In 1990, the Board of Directors adopted, and the shareholders approved, the
NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1990 Plan ). The 1990 Plan provides for the issuance of up to 163 million previously unissued shares of Class B Common Stock in connection with stock options and other awards granted under
the plan. The 1990 Plan authorizes the grant of non-statutory stock options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance-based awards. The exercise price for stock options and stock
appreciation rights may not be less than the fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. A committee of the Board of Directors administers the 1990 Plan. The committee has the authority to determine the employees to whom awards
will be made, the amount of the awards, and the other terms and conditions of the awards. Substantially all stock option grants outstanding under the 1990 Plan were granted in the first quarter of each fiscal year, vest ratably over four years, and
expire 10 years from the date of grant.          The following table summarizes the
Company s total stock-based compensation expense recognized in selling and administrative expense:       

(1)   
   Expense for stock options includes the expense associated with stock appreciation rights. Accelerated stock option expense is recorded for employees eligible for accelerated
stock option vesting upon retirement. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company changed the accelerated vesting provisions of its stock option plan. Under the new provisions, accelerated stock option expense for years ended May 31, 2012
and 2011 was $17 million and $12 million, respectively. The accelerated stock option expense for the year ended May 31, 2010 was $74 million.         As of May 31, 2012, the Company had $151 million of unrecognized compensation costs from stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized as selling and administrative expense over a weighted
average period of 2.2 years.   

Table of Contents  

   The weighted average fair value per share of the options granted during the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and
2010, as computed using the Black-Scholes pricing model, was $22.15, $17.68, and $23.43, respectively. The weighted average assumptions used to estimate these fair values are as follows:   
   
        The Company estimates the expected volatility based on the
implied volatility in market traded options on the Company s common stock with a term greater than one year, along with other factors. The weighted average expected life of options is based on an analysis of historical and expected future
exercise patterns. The interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury (constant maturity) risk-free rate in effect at the date of grant for periods corresponding with the expected term of the options.   
      The following summarizes the stock option transactions under the plan discussed above:

(1)   
   Includes stock appreciation rights transactions.          
  The weighted average contractual life remaining for options outstanding and options exercisable at May 31, 2012 was 6.3 years and 4.6 years, respectively. The
aggregate intrinsic value for options outstanding and exercisable at May 31, 2012 was $1,512 million and $1,008 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value was the amount by which the market value of the underlying stock exceeded the
exercise price of the options. The total intrinsic value of the options exercised during the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $453 million, $267 million, and $239 million, respectively.   
  In addition to the 1990 Plan, the Company gives employees the right to purchase shares at a discount to the market price under employee stock purchase plans
( ESPPs ). Employees are eligible to participate through payroll deductions of up to 10% of their compensation. At the end of each six-month offering period, shares are purchased by the participants at 85% of the lower of the fair market
value at the beginning or the end of the offering period. Employees purchased 0.8 million shares during each of the three years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.      From time to time, the Company grants restricted stock units and restricted stock to key employees under the 1990 Plan. The number of shares underlying such awards granted to employees during the years ended
May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 were 0.4 million, 0.2 million, and 0.5 million with weighted average values per share of $98.99, $70.23, and $53.16, respectively. Recipients of restricted stock are entitled to cash dividends and to
vote their respective shares throughout the period of restriction. Recipients of restricted stock units are entitled to dividend equivalent cash payments upon vesting. The value of all grants of restricted stock and restricted stock units was
established by the market price on the date of grant. During the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, the aggregate fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units vested was $22 million, $15 million, and $8 million,
respectively, determined as of the date of vesting.   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 12   Earnings Per Share    
       The following is a reconciliation from
basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share. Options to purchase an additional 0.1 million, 0.2 million, and 0.2 million shares of common stock were outstanding at May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, but were
not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options were anti-dilutive.       
 
    NOTE 13   Benefit Plans    
           The Company has a profit sharing plan available to most U.S.-based employees. The terms of the plan call for annual contributions by the Company as determined by the Board of Directors. A subsidiary of the Company
also had a profit sharing plan available to its U.S.-based employees prior to fiscal 2012. The terms of the plan called for annual contributions as determined by the subsidiary s executive management. Contributions of $40 million, $39 million,
and $35 million were made to the plans and are included in selling and administrative expense for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The Company has various 401(k) employee savings plans available to U.S.-based
employees. The Company matches a portion of employee contributions. Company contributions to the savings plans were $44 million, $39 million, and $34 million for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, and are included in
selling and administrative expense.      The Company also has a Long-Term Incentive Plan ( LTIP ) that was adopted by the Board of Directors and
approved by shareholders in September 1997 and later amended in fiscal 2007. The Company recognized $51 million, $31 million, and $24 million of selling and administrative expense related to cash awards under the LTIP during the years ended
May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.      The Company has pension plans in various countries worldwide. The pension plans are only available to
local employees and are generally government mandated. The liability related to the unfunded pension liabilities of the plans was $115 million and $93 million at May 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which was primarily classified as long-term
in other liabilities.       
    NOTE 14   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income    
       The components of accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of tax, are as follows:       
    Refer to Note 16   Risk Management and Derivatives for more information on the Company s risk management program and
derivatives.   
    NOTE 15   Commitments and Contingencies    
           The Company leases space for certain of its offices, warehouses and retail stores under leases expiring from 1 to 23 years after May 31, 2012. Rent expense was $494 million, $446 million, and $416 million for
the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Amounts of minimum future annual rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in each of the five years ending May 31, 2013 through 2017 are $408 million, $387 million,
$271 million, $224 million, $186 million, respectively, and $662 million in later years.      As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had letters of
credit outstanding totaling $138 million and $99 million, respectively. These letters of credit were generally issued for the purchase of inventory and guarantees of the Company s performance under certain self-insurance and other programs.
     In connection with various contracts and agreements, the Company provides routine indemnifications relating to the enforceability of intellectual
property rights, coverage for legal issues that arise and other items where the Company is acting as the guarantor. Currently, the Company has several such agreements in place. However, based on the Company s historical experience and the
estimated probability of future loss, the Company has determined that the fair value of such indemnifications is not material to the Company s financial position or results of operations.      In the ordinary course of its business, the Company is involved in various legal proceedings involving contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights, and a variety of other
matters. While the Company cannot predict the outcome of its pending legal matters with certainty, the Company does not believe any currently identified claim, proceeding or litigation, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material
impact on the Company s results of operations, financial position or cash flows.   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 16   Risk Management and Derivatives    
           The Company is exposed to global market risks, including the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, and uses derivatives to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal
course of business. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.      The Company may elect to designate certain derivatives as
hedging instruments under the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. The Company formally documents all relationships between designated hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objective and strategy for
undertaking hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to either recognized assets or liabilities or forecasted transactions.      The majority of derivatives outstanding as of May 31, 2012 are designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value and classified based on the
instrument s maturity date. The total notional amount of outstanding derivatives as of May 31, 2012 was approximately $7 billion, which is primarily comprised of cash flow hedges for Euro/U.S. Dollar, British Pound/Euro, and Japanese
Yen/U.S. Dollar currency pairs.         The following table presents the fair values of
derivative instruments included within the consolidated balance sheets as of May 31, 2012 and 2011:       

Asset Derivatives   

Liability Derivatives   

(In millions)   
     
   Balance Sheet Location   

May 31, 2012   

May 31, 2011   

Balance Sheet Location   

May 31, 2012   

May 31, 2011   

Derivatives formally designated as hedging instruments:  

Foreign exchange forwards and options   

Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

$  
  203  

$  
  22  

Accrued liabilities  

$  
  35  

$  
  170  

Interest rate swap contracts   

Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

Accrued liabilities  

Foreign exchange forwards and options   

Deferred income taxes and other long-term assets  

7  

7  

Deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities  

10  

Interest rate swap contracts   

Deferred income taxes and other long-term assets  

15  

15  

Deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities  

Total derivatives formally designated as hedging instruments   

225  

44  

35  

180  

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:  

Foreign exchange forwards and options   

Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

$  
  55  

$  
  9  

Accrued liabilities  

$  
  20  

$  
  16  

Embedded derivatives   

Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

1  

Accrued liabilities  

Foreign exchange forwards and options   

Deferred income taxes and other long-term assets  

Deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities  

1  

Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments  

56  

9  

20  

17  

TOTAL DERIVATIVES   

$  
  281  

$  
  53  

$  
  55  

$  
  197  
       
    The following tables present the amounts affecting the consolidated statements of income for years ended May 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010:       

(1)   
   For the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, the amounts recorded in other expense (income), net as a result of hedge ineffectiveness and the discontinuance of cash
flow hedges because the forecasted transactions were no longer probable of occurring were immaterial.      

Table of Contents  

Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivatives   

Location of Gain (Loss) Recognized       in Income on Derivatives    

Year Ended May 31,   

(In millions)   
     
   2012   

2011   

2010   

Derivatives designated as fair value hedges:  

Interest rate swaps (1)    
     
  $  
  6  

$  
  6  

$  
  7  

Interest expense (income), net  

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:  

Foreign exchange forwards and options   

64  

(30  
  )   

(91  
  )   

Other expense (income), net  

Embedded derivatives   
     
  $  
  1  

$  

$  

Other expense (income), net  

(1)   
   All interest rate swap agreements meet the shortcut method requirements under the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. Accordingly, changes in the fair values of
the interest rate swap agreements are considered to exactly offset changes in the fair value of the underlying long-term debt. Refer to  Fair Value Hedges  in this note for additional detail.      
      Refer to Note 5   Accrued Liabilities for derivative instruments recorded in accrued
liabilities, Note 6  Fair Value Measurements for a description of how the above financial instruments are valued, Note 14   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income and the consolidated statements of shareholders  equity for
additional information on changes in other comprehensive income for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.       Cash Flow
Hedges       The purpose of the Company s foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the Company from the risk that the eventual cash flows
resulting from transactions in foreign currencies will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Foreign currency exposures that the Company may elect to hedge in this manner include product cost exposures, non-functional currency
denominated external and intercompany revenues, selling and administrative expenses, investments in U.S. Dollar-denominated available-for-sale debt securities and certain other intercompany transactions.   
  Product cost exposures are primarily generated through non-functional currency denominated product purchases and the foreign currency adjustment program described
below. NIKE entities primarily purchase products in two ways: 1) Certain NIKE entities purchase product from the NIKE Trading Company ( NTC ), a wholly-owned centralized sourcing hub that buys NIKE branded products from external factories,
predominantly in U.S. Dollars. The NTC, whose functional currency is the U.S. Dollar, then sells the products to NIKE entities in their respective functional currencies. When the NTC sells to a NIKE entity with a different functional currency,
the result is a foreign currency exposure for the NTC; 2) Other NIKE entities purchase product directly from external factories in U.S. Dollars. These purchases generate a foreign currency exposure for those NIKE entities with a functional currency
other than the U.S. Dollar.      In January 2012, the Company implemented a foreign currency adjustment program with certain factories. The program is
designed to more effectively manage foreign currency risk by assuming certain of the factories  foreign currency exposures, some of which are natural offsets to our existing foreign currency exposures. Under this program, the Company s
payments to these factories are adjusted for rate fluctuations in the basket of currencies ( factory currency exposure index ) in which the labor, materials and overhead costs incurred by the factories in the production of NIKE branded
products ( factory input costs ) are denominated. For the portion of the indices denominated in the local or functional currency of the factory, the Company may elect to place formally designated cash flow hedges. For all currencies within
the indices, excluding the U.S. Dollar and the local or functional currency of the factory, an embedded derivative is created upon the factory s acceptance of NIKE s purchase order. Embedded derivatives are separated from the related
purchase order and their accounting treatment is described further below.      The Company s policy permits the utilization of derivatives to reduce its
foreign currency exposures where internal netting or other strategies cannot be effectively employed. Hedged transactions are denominated primarily in Euros, British Pounds and Japanese Yen. The Company may enter into hedge contracts typically
starting 12 to 18 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges for up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs.      All changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, excluding any ineffective portion, are recorded in other comprehensive income until net income is affected by the variability of cash flows
of the hedged transaction. In most cases, amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be released to net income some time after the maturity of the related derivative. Effective hedge results are classified within the consolidated statements
of income in the same manner as the underlying exposure, with the results of hedges of non-functional currency denominated revenues and product cost exposures, excluding embedded derivatives as described below, recorded in revenues or cost of sales,
when the underlying hedged transaction affects consolidated net income. Results of hedges of selling and administrative expense are recorded together with those costs when the related expense is recorded. Results of hedges of anticipated purchases
and sales of U.S. Dollar-denominated available-for-sale securities are recorded in other expense (income), net when the securities are sold. Results of hedges of certain anticipated intercompany transactions are recorded in other expense
(income), net when the transaction occurs. The Company classifies the cash flows at settlement from these designated cash flow hedge derivatives in the same category as the cash flows from the related hedged items, generally within the cash provided
by operations component of the cash flow statement.      Premiums paid on options are initially recorded as deferred charges. The Company assesses the
effectiveness of options based on the total cash flows method and records total changes in the options  fair value to other comprehensive income to the degree they are effective.      The Company formally assesses, both at a hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transaction have been highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash
flows of hedged items and whether those derivatives may be expected to remain highly effective in future periods. Effectiveness for cash flow hedges is assessed based on forward rates. Ineffectiveness was not material for the years ended
May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.      The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when (1) it determines that the derivative is no longer
highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of a hedged item (including hedged items such as firm commitments or forecasted transactions); (2) the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised; (3) it is no longer
probable that the forecasted transaction will occur; or (4) management determines that designating the derivative as a hedging instrument is no longer appropriate.      When the Company discontinues hedge accounting because it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur in the originally expected period, but is expected to occur within an additional two-month
period of time thereafter, the gain or loss on the derivative remains in accumulated other comprehensive income and is reclassified to net income when the forecasted transaction affects consolidated net income. However, if it is probable that a
forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter, the gains and losses that were accumulated in other comprehensive income will be recognized
immediately in other expense (income), net. In all situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued and the derivative remains outstanding, the Company will carry the derivative at its fair value on the balance sheet, recognizing future changes
in the fair value in other expense (income), net. For the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the amounts recorded in other expense (income), net as a result of the   

Table of Contents  

discontinuance of cash flow hedging because the forecasted transaction was no longer probable of occurring were immaterial.      As of May 31, 2012, $162 million of deferred net gains (net of tax) on both outstanding and matured derivatives accumulated in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to net income during
the next 12 months concurrent with the underlying hedged transactions also being recorded in net income. Actual amounts ultimately reclassified to net income are dependent on the exchange rates in effect when derivative contracts that are currently
outstanding mature. As of May 31, 2012, the maximum term over which the Company is hedging exposures to the variability of cash flows for its forecasted transactions is 24 months.       Fair Value Hedges       The Company is also exposed to the risk of changes in the fair value of
certain fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in interest rates. Derivatives currently used by the Company to hedge this risk are receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. As of May 31, 2012, all interest rate swap agreements are
designated as fair value hedges of the related long-term debt and meet the shortcut method requirements under the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. Accordingly, changes in the fair values of the interest rate swap agreements are
considered to exactly offset changes in the fair value of the underlying long-term debt. The cash flows associated with the Company s fair value hedges are periodic interest payments while the swaps are outstanding, which are reflected within
the cash provided by operations component of the cash flow statement. The Company recorded no ineffectiveness from its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, or 2010.   
   Net Investment Hedges       The Company also
hedges the risk of variability in foreign-currency-denominated net investments in wholly-owned international operations. All changes in fair value of the derivatives designated as net investment hedges, except ineffective portions, are reported in
the cumulative translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income along with the foreign currency translation adjustments on those investments. The Company classifies the cash flows at settlement of its net investment hedges within the
cash provided or used by investing component of the cash flow statement. The Company assesses hedge effectiveness based on changes in forward rates. The Company recorded no ineffectiveness from its net investment hedges for the years ended
May 31, 2012, 2011, or 2010.       Embedded Derivatives       As described above, for currencies within the factory currency exposure indices that are neither the U.S. Dollar nor the local or functional currency of the factory, an embedded derivative is created upon the
factory s acceptance of NIKE s purchase order. Embedded derivatives are treated as foreign currency forward contracts that are bifurcated from the related purchase order and recorded at fair value as a derivative asset or liability on the
balance sheet with their corresponding change in fair value recognized in other expense (income), net from the date a purchase order is accepted by a factory through the date the purchase price is no longer subject to foreign currency fluctuations.
At May 31, 2012, the notional amount of embedded derivatives was approximately $131 million. For the year ended May 31, 2012, a $1 million gain was recorded within other expense (income), net related to embedded derivatives. There were no
amounts recognized in other expense (income), net for the years ended May 31, 2011 or 2010.       Undesignated Derivative Instruments
      The Company may elect to enter into foreign exchange forwards to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance
sheet and/or the embedded derivative contracts explained above. These forwards are not designated as hedging instruments under the accounting standards for derivatives and hedging. Accordingly, these undesignated instruments are recorded at fair
value as a derivative asset or liability on the balance sheet with their corresponding change in fair value recognized in other expense (income), net, together with the re-measurement gain or loss from the hedged balance sheet position or embedded
derivative contract. The Company classifies the cash flows at settlement from undesignated instruments in the same category as the cash flows from the related hedged items, generally within the cash provided by operations component of the cash flow
statement.       Credit Risk       The
Company is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to hedging instruments. The counterparties to all derivative transactions are major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. However,
this does not eliminate the Company s exposure to credit risk with these institutions. This credit risk is limited to the unrealized gains in such contracts should any of these counterparties fail to perform as contracted. To manage this risk,
the Company has established strict counterparty credit guidelines that are continually monitored and managed according to prescribed guidelines. The Company also utilizes a portfolio of financial institutions either headquartered or operating in the
same countries in which the Company conducts its business.      The Company s derivative contracts contain credit risk related contingent features
designed to protect against significant deterioration in counterparties  creditworthiness and their ultimate ability to settle outstanding derivative contracts in the normal course of business. The Company s bilateral credit related
contingent features require the owing entity, either the Company or the derivative counterparty, to post collateral for the portion of the fair value in excess of $50 million should the fair value of outstanding derivatives per counterparty be
greater than $50 million. Additionally, a certain level of decline in credit rating of either the Company or the counterparty could also trigger collateral requirements. As of May 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with all credit risk
related contingent features and the aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with credit risk related contingent features that were in a net liability position was $6 million. Accordingly, the Company was not required to post any collateral as
a result of these contingent features. Given the considerations described above, the Company considers the impact of the risk of counterparty default to be immaterial.       
    NOTE 17   Operating Segments and Related Information    
            Operating Segments.  The Company s operating segments are evidence of the structure of the Company s internal organization. The major segments are defined by geographic regions for operations
participating in NIKE Brand sales activity excluding NIKE Golf. Each NIKE Brand geographic segment operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of sports and fitness footwear, apparel, and equipment. The
Company s reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America, Western Europe, Central   Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan, and Emerging Markets. The Company s NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are
managed within each geographic segment.      The Company s  Other  category is broken into two components for presentation purposes to align
with the way management views the Company. The  Global Brand Divisions  category primarily represents NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment, demand creation and operating overhead expenses that
are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand, and costs associated with product development and supply chain operations. The  Other Businesses  category primarily consists of the activities of Cole Haan, Converse Inc., Hurley
International LLC, NIKE Golf and Umbro Ltd. Activities represented in the  Other  category are considered immaterial for individual disclosure.   

Table of Contents  

   Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, which include expenses associated with
centrally managed departments, depreciation and amortization related to the Company s headquarters, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, including stock-based compensation, certain foreign currency gains and losses, including hedge gains
and losses, certain corporate eliminations and other items.      The primary financial measure used by the Company to evaluate performance of individual
operating segments is earnings before interest and taxes (commonly referred to as  EBIT ), which represents net income before interest expense, net and income taxes in the consolidated statements of income. Reconciling items for EBIT
represent corporate expense items that are not allocated to the operating segments for management reporting.      As part of our centrally managed foreign
exchange risk management program, standard foreign currency rates are assigned twice per year to each NIKE Brand entity in our geographic operating segments and certain Other Businesses. These rates are set approximately nine months in advance of
the future selling season based on average market spot rates in the calendar month preceding the date they are established. Inventories and cost of sales for geographic operating segments and certain Other Businesses reflect use of these standard
rates to record non-functional currency product purchases in the entity s functional currency. Differences between assigned standard foreign currency rates and actual market rates are included in Corporate, together with foreign currency hedge
gains and losses generated from our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program and other conversion gains and losses.      Accounts
receivable, inventories and property, plant and equipment for operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are therefore provided below. Additions to long-lived assets as presented in the following table represent capital
expenditures.      Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal 2012 presentation.   

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

    Revenues by Major Product Lines.  Revenues to external customers for NIKE Brand products are attributable
to sales of footwear, apparel and equipment. Other revenues to external customers primarily include external sales by Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf, and Umbro.       

         Revenues and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic
Area       Geographical area information is similar to what is reflected above under operating segments with the exception of the Other activity, which
has been allocated to the geographical areas based on the location where the sales originated. Revenues derived in the United States were $10,247 million, $8,956 million, and $7,914 million for the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010,
respectively. The Company s largest concentrations of long-lived assets primarily consist of the Company s world headquarters and distribution facilities in the United States and distribution facilities in Japan, Belgium and China.
Long-lived assets attributable to operations in the United States, which are comprised of net property, plant   equipment, were $1,260 million, $1,115 million, and $1,070 million at May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
Long-lived assets attributable to operations in Japan were $363 million at May 31, 2012 and 2011, and $336 million at May 31, 2010. Long-lived assets attributable to operations in Belgium were $164 million, $182 million, and $164 million
at May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Long-lived assets attributable to operations in China were $188 million, $175 million, and $144 million at May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.   
   Major Customers       No customer accounted for
10% or more of the Company s net revenues during the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010.       

ITEM 9.   
   Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         There has been no change of accountants nor any disagreements with accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial statement disclosure required to be reported under this Item.

ITEM 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures             We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow for
timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable
assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.      We carry out a variety of on-going procedures, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to evaluate the effectiveness of
the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance
level as of May 31, 2012.       Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  is included in Item 8 on
page 37 of this Report.      There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   Other Information             On July 20, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors approved the grant of restricted stock units under the Company s 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the  RSUs ), to
Donald W. Blair, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Eric D. Sprunk, Vice President, Merchandising   Product. The grant to Mr. Blair consists of 32,231 RSUs, and the grant to Mr. Sprunk consists of 53,718 RSUs. Each RSU obligates the
Company upon vesting of the RSU to issue to the RSU holder one share of NIKE Class B Common Stock plus a cash payment equal to the total amount of dividends paid per share between grant and vesting of the RSU. One hundred percent of the RSUs are
scheduled to vest for Mr. Blair on July 20, 2015, and for Mr. Sprunk on July 20, 2017, subject to their continued employment with the Company through the applicable vesting date. In addition, the RSUs will become 100% vested upon (i) the
recipient s earlier death or disability, or (ii) if a  change in control  of the Company occurs and within two years after the change in control, the recipient s employment is terminated by the Company without  cause 
or by him for  good reason,  as such terms are defined in the Company s current form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. Shares acquired under the RSUs are subject to the Company s Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation.

Table of Contents  

PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance          
  The information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K regarding directors is included under  Election of Directors  in the definitive Proxy
Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K regarding executive officers is included under  Executive Officers of the
Registrant  in Item 1 of this Report. The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is included under  Election of Directors   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the definitive
Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K is included under  Corporate Governance   Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics  in the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by Items 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K regarding the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors is included under  Corporate Governance   Board Committees  in the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.   

ITEM 11.   
   Executive Compensation             The information required by Items 402, 407(e)(4) and 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K regarding executive compensation is included under  Election of Directors   Director Compensation for Fiscal
2012,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation,   Election of Directors   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report  in
the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      
      The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is included under
 Executive Compensation   Equity Compensation Plans  in the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is
included under  Election of Directors   Stock Holdings of Certain Owners and Management  in the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.   

ITEM 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K is included under  Election of Directors   Transactions with Related Persons  and  Corporate Governance   Director
Independence  in the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services         The information
required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A is included under  Ratification Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in the definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema   
 
  101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase   
 
  101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Document   
 
  101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase   
 
  101.PRE  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase   

*   
   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.         The
Exhibits filed herewith do not include certain instruments with respect to long-term debt of NIKE and its subsidiaries, inasmuch as the total amount of debt authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of NIKE
and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. NIKE agrees, pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, that it will furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.      Upon written request to Investor Relations, NIKE, Inc., One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453, NIKE will furnish shareholders with a copy of any Exhibit upon payment of $.10 per page, which represents
our reasonable expenses in furnishing Exhibits.       SCHEDULE II   Valuation and qualifying accounts    

(1)   
   The non-current portion of the allowance for doubtful accounts is classified in deferred income taxes and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.

Table of Contents  

    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 033-63995, 333-63581, 333-63583, 333-68864, 333-68886, 333-71660, 333-104822, 333-117059, 333-133360, 333-164248, 333-171647, and 333-173727) of NIKE, Inc. of our report dated July 24, 2012 relating to
the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.       /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP       Portland, Oregon   
   July 24, 2012    

Table of Contents  

      Signatures    
      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

NIKE, INC.    

By:  
     
  /s/    MARK G. PARKER   

Mark G. Parker    

Chief Executive Officer and President    
 
  Date:  
     
  July 24, 2012   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

<EX-10.4>
 2
 d341264dex104.htm
 FORM OF NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement 

Exhibit 10.4        NIKE, INC.        1990 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT       Pursuant to the 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) of NIKE, Inc., an Oregon corporation (the  Company ), the Company grants to
              (the  Optionee ) the right and the option (the  Option ) to purchase all or any part of
              of the Company s Class B Common Stock at a purchase price of $            per share, subject to the terms
and conditions of this agreement between the Company and the Optionee (this  Agreement ). By accepting this Option grant, the Optionee agrees to all of the terms and conditions of the Option grant. The terms and conditions of the Option
grant set forth in the attached Exhibit A and in the attached Appendix For Non-U.S. Optionees are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Agreement but defined in the Plan shall have the
same definitions as in the Plan.      1.  Grant Date; Expiration Date.  The Grant Date for this Option is
              . The Option shall continue in effect until  {Date}  (the  Expiration Date ) unless earlier terminated as provided in Sections 1 or 6 of Exhibit A. The
Option shall not be exercisable on or after the Expiration Date.      2.  Vesting of Option.  The Vesting Reference Date of
this Option is               . Until it expires or is terminated as provided in Sections 1 or 6 of Exhibit A, the Option may be exercised from time to time to purchase whole shares as
to which it has become exercisable. The Option shall become exercisable for 25% of the shares on each of the first four anniversaries of the Vesting Reference Date, so that the Option will be fully exercisable on the fourth anniversary of the
Vesting Reference Date.      3.  Non-Statutory Stock Option.  The Company hereby designates the Option to be a non-statutory
stock option, rather than an Incentive Stock Option as defined in Section 422 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.       

NIKE, INC.        EXHIBIT A TO        1990 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT       1.  Termination of Employment or Service.       1.1  General Rule.  Except
as provided in this Section 1 or in Section 6.2, the Option may not be exercised unless at the time of exercise the Optionee is employed by or in the service of the Company and shall have been so employed or provided such service
continuously since the Grant Date. For purposes of this Agreement, the Optionee is considered to be employed by or in the service of the Company if the Optionee is employed by or in the service of the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation
of the Company (an  Employer ).      1.2  Termination Generally.  If the Optionee s employment or service with
the Company terminates for any reason other than total disability, death, normal retirement or early retirement as provided in Sections 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 or 1.6, or cause or good reason in connection with a change in control as provided in
Section 6.2, the Option may be exercised at any time before the Expiration Date or the expiration of three months after the date of termination, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the Optionee was entitled to
exercise the Option at the date of termination.      1.3  Termination Because of Total Disability.  If the Optionee s
employment or service with the Company terminates because of total disability, the Option shall, following the receipt and processing by the Company s legal department of any necessary and appropriate documentation in connection with the
Optionee s termination (the  Processing Period ), become exercisable in full and may be exercised at any time before the Expiration Date or before the date that is four years after the date of termination, whichever is the shorter
period. The term  total disability  means a medically determinable mental or physical impairment that is expected to result in death or has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of 12 months or more and that, in the opinion
of the Company and two independent physicians, causes the Optionee to be unable to perform duties as an employee, director, officer or consultant of the Employer and unable to be engaged in any substantial gainful activity. Total disability shall be
deemed to have occurred on the first day after the two independent physicians have furnished their written opinion of total disability to the Company and the Company has reached an opinion of total disability.   
  1.4  Termination Because of Death.  If the Optionee dies while employed by or in the service of the Company, the Option shall,
following the Processing Period, become exercisable in full and may be exercised at any time before the Expiration Date or before the date that is four years after the date of death, whichever is the shorter period, but only by the person or persons
to whom the Optionee s rights under the Option shall pass by the Optionee s will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of domicile at the time of death.   
  1.5  Termination Because of Normal Retirement.  Subject to Section 6.2, if the Optionee s employment or service with the
Company terminates because of the Optionee s   
         A-1

normal retirement before the first anniversary of the Vesting Reference Date, the Option shall immediately terminate. If the Optionee s employment or service with the Company terminates
because of the Optionee s normal retirement on or after the first anniversary of the Vesting Reference Date, the Option shall, following the Processing Period, become exercisable in full and may be exercised at any time before the Expiration
Date or before the expiration of four years after the date of termination, whichever is the shorter period. For purposes of this Section 1.5, the term  normal retirement  means a termination of employment or service other than as a
result of death or total disability that occurs at a time when (a) the Optionee s age is at least 60 years, and (b) the Optionee has been employed by or in the service of the Company or a parent or subsidiary corporation of the
Company for at least five full years.      1.6  Termination Because of Early Retirement . Subject to Section 6.2, if the
Optionee s employment or service with the Company terminates because of the Optionee s early retirement before the first anniversary of the Vesting Reference Date, the Option shall immediately terminate. If the Optionee s employment
or service with the Company terminates because of the Optionee s early retirement on or after the first anniversary of the Vesting Reference Date, the Option shall continue to become exercisable according to the schedule specified in this
Agreement with no forfeiture of any portion of the Option resulting from such termination, and the Option may be exercised at any time before the Expiration Date or before the expiration of four years after the date of termination, whichever is the
shorter period. For purposes of this Section 1.6, the term  early retirement  means a termination of employment or service other than as a result of death or total disability that occurs at a time when (a) the Optionee s age
is at least 55 years and less than 60 years, and (b) the Optionee has been employed by or in the service of the Company or a parent or subsidiary corporation of the Company for at least five full years.   
  1.7  Absence on Leave.  Absence on leave or on account of illness or disability under rules established by the committee of the
Board of Directors of the Company appointed to administer the Plan (the  Committee ) shall not be deemed an interruption of employment or service.      1.8  Failure to Exercise Option.  To the extent that following termination of employment or service, the Option is not exercised within the applicable periods described above or in Section 6.2,
all further rights to purchase shares pursuant to the Option shall cease and terminate.      2.  Method of Exercise of Option.
 The Option may be exercised only by notice in writing from the Optionee to the Company,  or a broker designated by the Company , of the Optionee s binding commitment to purchase shares, specifying the number of shares the Optionee
desires to purchase under the Option and the date on which the Optionee agrees to complete the transaction and, if required to comply with the Securities Act of 1933, containing a representation that it is the Optionee s intention to acquire
the shares for investment and not with a view to distribution  (the  Exercise Notice ) . On or before the date specified for completion of the purchase, the Optionee must pay the Company the full purchase price of those shares by
 either of, or a combination of, the following methods at the election of the Optionee: (a) cash payment by wire transfer; or (b) delivery of an Exercise Notice, together with  irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly
to the Company the amount of  sale  proceeds   
         A-2

required to pay the full purchase price . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, no shares shall be issued upon exercise of an Option until full payment for the shares has been made,
including all amounts owed for tax withholding  as discussed in Section 4 below .      3.  Nontransferability.  The
Option is nonassignable and nontransferable by the Optionee, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the Optionee s domicile at the time of death, and
during the Optionee s lifetime, the Option is exercisable only by the Optionee.      4.  Responsibility for Taxes.  The
Optionee shall, immediately upon notification of the amount due, if any, pay to the Company by wire transfer, or irrevocably instruct a broker to pay from stock sales proceeds, amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax
withholding requirements. If additional withholding is or becomes required (as a result of exercise of the Option or as a result of disposition of shares acquired pursuant to exercise of the Option) beyond any amount deposited before delivery of the
certificates, the Optionee shall pay such amount to the Company, by wire transfer, on demand. If the Optionee fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company or the Employer may withhold that amount from other amounts payable to the Optionee,
including salary, subject to applicable law.      5.  Changes in Capital Structure.  If the outstanding shares of Common
Stock of the Company are hereafter increased or decreased or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company by reason of any recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, combination of
shares or dividend payable in shares, appropriate adjustment shall be made by the Committee in the number and kind of shares subject to the Option, and the purchase price for shares subject to the Option, so that the Optionee s proportionate
interest before and after the occurrence of the event is maintained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall have no obligation to effect any adjustment that would or might result in the issuance of fractional shares, and any fractional
shares resulting from any adjustment may be disregarded or provided for in any manner determined by the Committee. Any such adjustments made by the Committee shall be conclusive.   
  6.  Sale of the Company; Change in Control .      6.1  Sale of the Company . If there shall occur a merger, consolidation or plan of exchange involving the Company pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company are converted
into cash or other stock, securities or property, or a sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, the assets of the Company, then either:   
  6.1.1 the Option shall be converted into an option to acquire stock of the surviving or acquiring corporation in the
applicable transaction for a total purchase price equal to the total price applicable to the unexercised portion of the Option, and with the amount and type of shares subject thereto and purchase price per share thereof to be conclusively determined
by the Committee, taking into account the relative values of the companies involved in the applicable transaction and the exchange rate, if any, used in determining shares of the surviving corporation to be held by the former holders of the
  
         A-3

Company s Class B Common Stock following the applicable transaction, and disregarding fractional shares; or   
  6.1.2 the Option will become exercisable in full effective as of the consummation of such transaction, and the Committee
shall approve some arrangement by which the Optionee shall have a reasonable opportunity to exercise the Option effective as of the consummation of such transaction or otherwise realize the value of the Option, as determined by the Committee. If the
Option is not exercised in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee, the Option shall terminate (notwithstanding any provisions apparently to the contrary in this Agreement).   
  6.2  Change in Control . If Section 6.1.2 does not apply, the Option shall, following a reasonable Processing Period, become
exercisable in full and may be exercised at any time before the Expiration Date or before the date that is four years after the date of termination of employment or service, whichever is the shorter period, if a Change in Control (as defined below)
occurs and at any time after the earlier of Shareholder Approval (as defined below), if any, or the Change in Control and on or before the second anniversary of the Change in Control, (i) the Optionee s employment or service is terminated
by the Company (or its successor) without Cause (as defined below), or (ii) the Optionee s employment or service is terminated by the Optionee for Good Reason (as defined below).   
  6.2.1 For purposes of this Agreement, a   Change in Control   of the Company shall mean the occurrence of
any of the following events:      (a) At any time during a period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the
beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company ( Incumbent Directors ) shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof; provided, however, that the term  Incumbent Director  shall
also include each new director elected during such two-year period whose nomination or election was approved by two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors then in office;   
  (b) At any time that the holders of the Class A Common Stock of the Company have the right to elect (voting as a
separate class) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company, any  person  or  group  (within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) shall, as a result of a tender or exchange offer,
open market purchases or privately negotiated purchases from anyone other than the Company, have become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than fifty percent (50%) of
the then outstanding Class A Common Stock of the Company;      (c) At any time after such time as the holders
of the Class A Common Stock of the Company cease to have the right to elect (voting as a separate class) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company, any  person  or  group  (within the meaning of
Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) shall, as a result of a tender or exchange offer,   
         A-4

open market purchases or privately negotiated purchases from anyone other than the Company, have become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors ( Voting Securities ) representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting
Securities;      (d) A consolidation, merger or plan of exchange involving the Company ( Merger ) as a
result of which the holders of outstanding Voting Securities immediately prior to the Merger do not continue to hold at least 50% of the combined voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of the surviving corporation or a parent corporation
of the surviving corporation immediately after the Merger, disregarding any Voting Securities issued to or retained by such holders in respect of securities of any other party to the Merger; or   
  (e) A sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company.      6.2.2 For purposes of this Agreement,   Shareholder
Approval   shall mean approval by the shareholders of the Company of a transaction, the consummation of which would be a Change in Control.      6.2.3 For purposes of this Agreement,   Cause   shall mean (a) the willful and continued failure to perform substantially the Optionee s reasonably assigned duties with the
Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Optionee by the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which the Company
believes that the Optionee has not substantially performed the Optionee s duties, or (b) the willful engagement in illegal conduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. No act, or failure to act, shall be
considered  willful  if the Optionee reasonably believed that the action or omission was in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company.      6.2.4 For purposes of this Agreement,   Good Reason   shall mean:      (a) the assignment of a different title, job or responsibilities that results in a decrease in the level of responsibility of the Optionee after Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in
Control when compared to the Optionee s level of responsibility for the Company s operations prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control; provided that Good Reason shall not exist if the Optionee continues to
have the same or a greater general level of responsibility for Company operations after the Change in Control as the Optionee had prior to the Change in Control even if the Company operations are a subsidiary or division of the surviving company,
  
         A-5

(b) a reduction in the Optionee s base pay as in effect immediately
prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control,      (c) a material reduction in total
benefits available to the Optionee under cash incentive, stock incentive and other employee benefit plans after Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control compared to the total package of such benefits as in effect prior to
Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control, or      (d) the Optionee is required to be based
more than 50 miles from where the Optionee s office is located immediately prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control except for required travel on company business to an extent substantially consistent with the
business travel obligations which the Optionee undertook on behalf of the Company prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control.      7.  Clawback Policy . The Optionee acknowledges and agrees that all shares purchased upon exercise of the Option shall be subject to the NIKE, Inc. Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation as
approved by the Committee and in effect on the Grant Date.      8.  Conditions on Obligations.  The Company shall not be
obligated to issue shares of Class B Common Stock upon exercise of the Option if the Company is advised by its legal counsel that such issuance would violate applicable foreign, state or federal laws, including securities laws or exchange control
regulations.      9.  No Right to Employment or Service.  Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall (a) confer upon
the Optionee any right to be continued in the employment of an Employer or interfere in any way with the Employer s right to terminate the Optionee s employment at will at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, or to decrease the
Optionee s compensation or benefits, or (b) confer upon the Optionee any right to be retained or employed by the Employer or to the continuation, extension, renewal or modification of any compensation, contract or arrangement with or by
the Employer. The determination of whether to grant any option under the Plan is made by the Company in its sole discretion. The grant of the Option shall not confer upon the Optionee any right to receive any additional option or other award under
the Plan or otherwise.      10.  No Advice Regarding Grant.  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice,
nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Optionee s participation in the Plan, or the Optionee s acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Class B Common Stock. The Optionee is hereby advised to consult with the
Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding the Optionee s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.      11.  Successors of Company.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor of the Company but, except as provided herein, the Option may not be assigned or
otherwise transferred by the Optionee.   
         A-6

12.  Rights as a Shareholder.  The Optionee shall have no rights as a shareholder with
respect to any shares of Class B Common Stock until the date the Optionee becomes the holder of record of those shares. No adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date occurs before the date the Optionee becomes
the holder of record.      13.  Amendments.  The Company may at any time amend this Agreement to extend the expiration
periods provided in Sections 1 or 6.2 or to increase the portion of the Option that is exercisable. Otherwise, this Agreement may not be amended without the written consent of the Optionee and the Company.   
  14.  Committee Determinations.  The Optionee agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions and interpretations of
the Committee or other administrator of the Plan as to the provisions of the Plan or this Agreement or any questions arising thereunder.      15.  Governing Law; Attorneys  Fees.  The Option grant and the provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Oregon. For purposes of litigating any
dispute that arises under this grant or the Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted, in the courts of Washington County, Oregon or the United States District Court
for the District of Oregon, where this grant is made and/or to be performed. In the event either party institutes litigation hereunder, the prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys  fees to be set by the trial court and, upon
any appeal, the appellate court.      16.  Electronic Delivery.  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver
any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. The Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system
established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.      17.  Severability.  The provisions
of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.   
  18.  Appendix . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, if the Optionee is a resident of any country other than the United
States on the Grant Date, the Option grant shall be subject to the special terms and conditions set forth in the Appendix to this Agreement, including additional terms for all non-U.S. optionees and additional terms for the Optionee s country.
Moreover, if the Optionee relocates outside of the United States to one of the countries included in the Appendix, or from one such country to another such country, the special terms and conditions for all non-U.S. optionees and for such country
will apply to the Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes
part of this Agreement.      19.  Imposition of Other Requirements . The Company reserves the right to impose other
requirements upon the Optionee s participation in the Plan, on the Option and on any shares of Class B Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines   
         A-7

it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require the Optionee to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may
be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.       20 .  Complete Agreement.  This Agreement, including the Appendix,
constitutes the entire agreement between the Optionee and the Company, both oral and written concerning the matters addressed herein,  except with regard to the imposition of other requirements as described under Section 19 above , and all
prior agreements or representations concerning the matters addressed herein, whether written or oral, express or implied, are terminated and of no further effect.   
         A-8

NIKE, INC.        APPENDIX FOR NON-U.S. OPTIONEES        1990 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
       NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT       This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern Options for Optionees residing outside of the United States and in one of the countries listed herein. Capitalized terms not explicitly
defined in this Appendix but defined in the Agreement shall have the same definitions as in the Agreement.      This Appendix also
includes information regarding certain issues of which the Optionee should be aware with respect to participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of
June 2012. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that the Optionee not rely on the information in this Appendix as the only source of information relating to the consequences of participation
in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that the Optionee exercises the Option or sells shares of Class B Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option.   
  In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Optionee s particular situation, and the
Company is not in a position to assure the Optionee of a particular result. Accordingly, the Optionee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in the Optionee s country may apply to a particular situation.
     Further, if the Optionee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Optionee is currently working,
the information contained herein may not be applicable.      Finally, the Company may, at any time and at its own discretion,
restrict the available methods of exercising the Option/paying the purchase price or direct the repatriation of the proceeds of the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option to facilitate compliance with any tax,
securities or other relevant laws in the Optionee s country.   
         APP-1

ADDITIONAL TERMS FOR ALL NON-U.S. OPTIONEES    
  The following additional terms and conditions apply to the Option if the Optionee is a resident of any country other than the United
States at the time of grant, vesting or exercise of the Option. Additional country-specific terms and conditions that apply to the Option if the Optionee is a resident of the particular country begin on page APP-6.   
  1.  Active Employment.  Notwithstanding Section 1 of Exhibit A to the Agreement, in the event of termination of the
Optionee s employment or service (whether or not in breach of local labor laws and whether or not later found to be invalid):      1.1 the Optionee s right to vest in the Option, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Optionee is no longer actively employed or in service,   
  1.2 the Optionee s right to exercise the Option after termination of employment or service, if any, will be measured by the date of
termination of active employment or service, and      1.3 neither the right to vest nor the right to exercise will be extended by
any notice period mandated under local law (e.g., active employment or service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law).      The Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Optionee is no longer actively employed or in service for purposes of the Option.   
  2.  Responsibility for Taxes.  This provision replaces Section 4 of Exhibit A to the Agreement.   
  Regardless of any action the Company or the Employer takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment
on account or other tax-related items related to the Optionee s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Optionee or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to the Optionee even if technically due by the
Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ), the Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains the Optionee s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or
the Employer. The Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including, but not
limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the issuance of shares of Class B Common Stock upon exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of shares of Class B Common Stock acquired pursuant to such issuance and the receipt of any
dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate the Optionee s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.
Further, if the Optionee has become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, the Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable)
may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.   
         APP-2

Prior to any relevant taxable or tax-withholding event, as applicable, the Optionee will pay
or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, the Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the
obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:       

(1)  
  withholding from the Optionee s wages or other cash compensation paid to the Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer;     

(2)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale
arranged by the Company (on the Optionee s behalf pursuant to this authorization); or         

(3)  
  withholding in shares to be issued upon exercise of the Option.        To avoid negative accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates. If
the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares, for tax purposes, the Optionee is deemed to have been issued the full number of shares subject to the exercised Option, notwithstanding that a number of the shares are held
back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of the Optionee s participation in the Plan.      Finally, the Optionee shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the
Optionee s participation in the Plan that are not, in the discretion of the Company or the Employer, satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the proceeds of the sale of shares of
Class B Common Stock, if the Optionee fails to comply with the Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.      3.  Nature of Grant.  In accepting this Option grant, the Optionee acknowledges that:      3.1 the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;   
  3.2 the grant of the Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of
Options, or benefits in lieu of Options, even if Options have been granted repeatedly in the past;      3.3 all decisions with
respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;      3.4 the Optionee is voluntarily
participating in the Plan;   
         APP-3

3.5 the Option and the shares of Class B Common Stock subject to the Option are
extraordinary items that do not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or the Employer, and which are outside the scope of the Optionee s employment contract, if any;   
  3.6 the Option and the shares of Class B Common Stock subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or
compensation;      3.7 the Option and the shares of Class B Common Stock subject to the Option are not part of normal or expected
compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or
similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company;   
  3.8 the Option grant and the Optionee s participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or
relationship with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company;      3.9 the future value of the underlying shares of
Class B Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;      3.10 if the underlying shares of Class B Common Stock
do not increase in value, the Option will have no value;      3.11 if the Optionee exercises the Option and obtains shares of
Class B Common Stock, the value of the shares of Class B Common Stock acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the purchase price; and      3.12 no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Option resulting from termination of the Optionee s employment or service with the Company or the Employer
(for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws and whether or not later found to be invalid) and in consideration of the grant of the Option to which the Optionee is not otherwise entitled, the Optionee irrevocably
agrees never to institute any claim against the Company or the Employer and waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim
is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then by participating in the Plan, the Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal of
withdrawal or such claims.          4.   Data Privacy. The Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to
the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Optionee s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Option grant materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan.     
         APP-4

The Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal
information about the Optionee, including, but not limited to, the Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common
Stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Options or any other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Optionee s favor, for the exclusive purpose of
implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ).          The Optionee understands that Data will
be transferred to a designated Plan broker or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The Optionee
understands that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Optionee s country. The
Optionee understands that the Optionee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Optionee s local human resources representative. The Optionee authorizes the Company, a designated
Plan broker and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for
the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan. The Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Optionee s
participation in the Plan. The Optionee understands that the Optionee may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents
herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Optionee s local human resources representative. The Optionee understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing the Optionee s consent may affect the Optionee s ability
to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Optionee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Optionee understands that the Optionee may contact the Optionee s local human resources representative.
       5.  Language . If the Optionee has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated
into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.      6.  Exception to Retirement Provisions . If the Company receives an opinion of counsel that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in the country of Optionee s residence that
would likely result in the favorable retirement treatment under Sections 1.5 and 1.6 of Exhibit A being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, then the Company will not apply Sections 1.5 and 1.6 of Exhibit A at the time of the Optionee s
termination of employment or service, and instead will apply Section 1.2 of Exhibit A.   
         APP-5

ARGENTINA        Securities Law Information . Shares of the Company s Class B Common Stock are not publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina. The offer is private and not subject to the
supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.       Exchange Control Information . Depending upon the method of exercise the Optionee
chooses with respect to the Option, the Optionee may be subject to restrictions with respect to the purchase and/or transfer of foreign currency pursuant to Argentine currency exchange regulations. The Optionee hereby agrees to comply with any and
all Argentine currency exchange restrictions, approvals and reporting requirements in connection with the exercise of the Option.      Under
current regulations adopted by the Argentine Central Bank ( BCRA ), the Optionee may purchase and remit foreign currency with a value of up to US$2,000,000 per month for the purpose of acquiring foreign securities, including shares of
Class B Common Stock acquired under the Plan, without prior approval from the BCRA. However, the Optionee must register the purchase with the BCRA and execute and submit an affidavit to the entity selling the foreign currency confirming that the
Optionee has not purchased and remitted funds in excess of US$2,000,000 during the relevant month.      In the event that the Optionee transfers
proceeds in excess of US$2,000,000 from the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock acquired under the Plan or the receipt of dividends paid on such shares into Argentina in a single month, the Optionee will be required to place 30% of any proceeds
in excess of US$2,000,000 in a non-interest bearing dollar denominated mandatory deposit account for a holding period of 365 days.      Please
note that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. The Optionee should consult with his or her personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that the Optionee may have prior to exercising the
Option or receiving proceeds from the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option or from the payment of any dividends.       Tax Reporting Information.  The Optionee is requried to report any share in a non-Argentine company (including shares of Class B Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option) held as of
December 31 of each year in his or her tax return.       AUSTRALIA    
   Limitations on Exercise.  The following supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All
Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:      If the Options vest when the market price per share of Class B Common Stock is equal to or less than the
purchase price for the Options, the Optionee shall not be permitted to exercise the Option. The Options may only be exercised starting on the business day following the first day on which the market price per share of Class B Common Stock exceeds
the purchase price for the Options.   
         APP-6

Lastly, due to tax laws in Australia, the Expiration Date of the Option shall be a date which is no greater
than seven (7) years from the Grant Date.       Securities Law Information.  If the Optionee acquires shares of Class B Common Stock
upon exercise of the Option and subsequently offers the shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, such an offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law, and the Optionee should obtain legal advice regarding
any applicable disclosure requirements prior to making any such offer.          AUSTRIA    
   Consumer Protection Information .   To the extent that the provisions of the Austrian Consumer Protection Act are applicable to the Agreement
and the Option, the Optionee may be entitled to revoke his or her acceptance of the Agreement if the conditions listed below are met:       

(i)  
  The revocation must be made within one week after the Optionee accepts the Agreement.     

(ii)  
  The revocation must be in written form to be valid. It is sufficient if the Optionee returns the Agreement to the Company or the Company s representative with
language that can be understood as the Optionee s refusal to conclude or honor the Agreement, provided the revocation is sent within the period set forth above.     
   BELGIUM        Taxation of
Option.  The Option must be accepted in writing either (i) within 60 days of the offer (for tax at offer), or (ii) after 60 days of the offer (for tax at exercise).       Reporting Information.  The Optionee is required to report any bank or brokerage accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on his or her annual tax return.      
   BRAZIL    
       Compliance with Law.      By accepting the Option, the Optionee acknowledges his or her agreement to comply with applicable
Brazilian laws and to pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the exercise of the Option, the receipt of any dividends, and the sale of shares issued upon exercise of the Option.       
   Exchange Control Information . If the Optionee is a resident or domiciled in Brazil, he or she will be required to submit an annual declaration of
assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights is equal to or greater than US$100,000. Assets and rights that must be reported include shares issued upon exercise of the
Option.       CANADA        Method of Exercise.  This provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:   
         APP-7

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Optionee will not be permitted
to pay the purchase price or any Tax-Related Items by delivery to the Company, or attestation to the Company of ownership, of other Class B Common Stock.       French Language Provision . The following provision will apply if the Optionee is a resident of Quebec:      The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or
indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.       Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais de la convention,
ainsi que de tous documents ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaries intent es, directement ou indirectement, relativement   ou suite   la pr sente convention.    
   Termination of Employment or Service . This provision supplements Section 1 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this
Appendix.      In the event of involuntary termination of the Optionee s employment or service (whether or not in breach of local labor
laws), the Optionee s right to receive and vest in the Option, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date the Optionee receives notice of termination of employment or service from the Company or
the Optionee s Employer, or (2) the date the Optionee is no longer actively employed by or in the service of the Company or his or her Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local
law (including, but not limited to, statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Optionee no longer actively employed or in service for purposes of the Option grant.
      Data Privacy.  This provision supplements Section 4 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:
     The Optionee hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from
all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. The Optionee further authorizes the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate and the Committee to disclose and discuss the Option with their advisors. The
Optionee further authorizes the Company and any subsidiary or affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in the Optionee s employee file.       CHILE        Securities Law Information.  Neither the Company nor the shares of Class B
Common Stock subject to the Option are registered with the Chilean Registry of Securities or under the control of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities.       Exchange Control Information.  It is the Optionee s responsibility to make sure that the Optionee complies with exchange control requirements in Chile when the value of his or her Option
transaction is in excess of US$10,000, regardless of whether the Optionee exercises his or her Option through a cash exercise or cashless method of exercise.   
         APP-8

If the Optionee uses the cash exercise method to exercise his or her Option and the Optionee remits funds in
excess of US$10,000 out of Chile, the remittance must be made through the Formal Exchange Market ( i.e ., a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office). In such case, the Optionee must provide to the bank or registered foreign
exchange office certain information regarding the remittance of funds ( e.g ., destination, currency, amount, parties involved, etc.).   
  If the Optionee exercises his or her Option using a cashless exercise method and the aggregate value of the purchase price exceeds US$10,000, the
Optionee must sign Annex 1 of the Manual of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations and file it directly with the Central Bank within 10 days of the exercise date.      The Optionee is not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of shares or the receipt of any dividends. However, if the Optionee decides to repatriate such funds, the Optionee must do so
through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of the funds exceeds US$10,000. In such case, the Optionee must report the payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.   
  If the Optionee s aggregate investments held outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000 (including the investments made under the Plan), the Optionee
must report the investments annually to the Central Bank. Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this report.      Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. The Optionee should consult with his or her personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that the
Optionee may have prior to exercising the Option or receiving proceeds from the sale of shares acquired upon exercise of the Option.   
   Annual Tax Reporting Obligation.  The Chilean Internal Revenue Service ( CIRS ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually
regarding: (i) the taxes paid abroad which they will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments. These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement
setting forth this information before March 15 of each year. The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn
Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.  If the Optionee is not a Chilean citizen and has been a resident in Chile for less than three years, the Optionee is exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853. These statements must be
submitted electronically through the CIRS website: www.sii.cl.       CHINA    
    The following provisions apply to PRC nationals and any other individuals who are subject to exchange control requirements in China, as determined
by the Company in its sole discretion:         Restriction on Exercisability.  Notwithstanding Section 2 of the Agreement and any
other provision of the Agreement or the Plan, the Optionee will not be permitted to exercise his or her Option until and unless the necessary approvals for the Plan have been obtained from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, as determined
by the Company in its sole discretion.   
         APP-9

Method of Exercise.  This provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and
Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement
or the Plan, due to exchange control laws in China, the Optionee will be required to exercise his or her Option using the cashless sell-all exercise method pursuant to which all shares subject to the exercised Option will be sold immediately upon
exercise and the proceeds of sale, less the purchase price, any Tax-Related Items and broker s fees or commissions, will be remitted to the Optionee in accordance with any applicable exchange control laws and regulations. The Company reserves
the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on the development of local law.       Exchange Control Requirements.  The
Optionee understands and agrees that, pursuant to local exchange control requirements, the Optionee will be required to immediately repatriate the cash proceeds from the cashless exercise of the Option to China. The Optionee further understands
that, under local law, such repatriation of his or her cash proceeds may need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company, subsidiary, affiliate or the Employer, and the Optionee hereby consents and agrees
that any proceeds from the sale of shares may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to the Optionee.      The proceeds
may be paid to the Optionee in U.S. dollars or local currency at the Company s discretion. In the event the proceeds are paid to the Optionee in U.S. dollars, the Optionee understands that the Optionee will be required to set up a U.S. dollar
bank account in China and provide the bank account details to the Employer and/or the Company so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. The Company is under no obligation to secure any particular exchange conversion rate and/or
conversion date and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. The Optionee agrees to bear any currency fluctuation risk between the time the shares are sold or dividends are
received and the time the proceeds are distributed through any such special exchange account. The Optionee further agrees to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with
exchange control requirements in China.       Post-Termination Exercise Period.  This provision modifies Section 1 of Exhibit A to the
Agreement:      Notwithstanding the post-termination exercise periods set forth in Section 1 of Exhibit A to the Agreement, to comply with
local exchange control requirements, Optionee will be required to exercise the Option within the lesser of (1) the period set forth in Section 1 of Exhibit A to the Agreement; and (2) three (3) months after termination of
employment or service, regardless of the reason for termination. The Company reserves the right to allow for a longer exercise period depending on the development of local law.       CZECH REPUBLIC        Exchange Control Information.  Upon request of the Czech National
Bank, the Optionee may need to file a notification within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter in which he or she acquires shares upon exercise of the Option.   
         APP-10

DENMARK        Exchange Control and Tax Reporting Information.  The Optionee may hold shares acquired upon exercise of the Option in a safety-deposit account ( e.g ., a brokerage account) either with a Danish
bank or with an approved foreign broker or bank. If the shares are held with a foreign broker or bank, the Optionee is required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the safety-deposit account. For this purpose, he or she must file a
Declaration V ( Erklaering V ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both the Optionee and the broker or bank must sign the Declaration V. By signing the Declaration V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each
year, not later than on February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to forward certain information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the safety-deposit account. In the event that
the applicable broker or bank with which the safety-deposit account is held does not wish to, or, pursuant to the laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, the Opeionee acknowledges that he or she is solely
responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account and any shares acquired at exercise and held in such account to the Danish Tax Administration as part of the Optionee s annual income tax return. By
signing the Declaration V, the Optionee at the same time authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of the Declaration V can be found at the following website: www.skat.dk/getFile.aspx?Id=47392.   
  In addition, when the Optionee opens a deposit account or a brokerage account for the purpose of holding cash outside of Denmark, the bank or brokerage
account, as applicable, will be treated as a deposit account because cash can be held in the account. Therefore, the Optionee must also file a Declaration K (Erklaering K) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both the Optionee and the bank/broker
must sign the Declaration K. By signing the Declaration K, the bank/broker undertakes an obligation, without further request each year, not later than on February 1 of the year following the calendar year to which the information relates, to
forward certain information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the deposit account. In the event that the applicable financial institution (broker or bank) with which the account is held, does not wish to, or, pursuant to the
laws of the country in question, is not allowed to assume such obligation to report, the Optionee acknowledges that he or she is solely responsible for providing certain details regarding the foreign brokerage or bank account to the Danish Tax
Administration as part of the Optionees annual income tax return. By signing the Declaration K, the Optionee at the same time authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account. A sample of Declaration K can be found at the following
website: www.skat.dk/getFile.aspx?Id=42409 newwindow=true.       FINLAND    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       FRANCE        Language Consent.  By accepting the Option, the Optionee confirms having
read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan, the French Plan (defined below), the Agreement and this Appendix) which were provided in English language. The Optionee accepts the terms of those documents accordingly.   

         APP-11

En acceptant l attribution, le B n ficiaire confirme ainsi avoir re u lu et
compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan le Plan Fran ais (d fini ci-dessous) et l Accord et cette Annexe)) qui ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. Le B n ficiaire
accepte les termes en connaissance de cause.        French-qualified Option Under the French Plan.  The Option is granted under the
Sub-Plan for Option Grants to French Participants (the  French Plan ) and is intended to qualify for favorable tax and social security treatment under Section L. 225-177 to L. 225-186-1 of the French Commercial Code, as amended and in
accordance with the relevant provisions set forth by the French tax and social security laws and the French tax and social security administrations. Thus, the terms of the French Plan and the following additional terms shall apply.   
  The Company does not undertake to maintain the qualified status of the Option. Further, the Optionee understands and agrees that the Optionee will be
responsible for paying personal income tax and his or her portion of social security contributions resulting from the exercise of the Option in the event the Optionee sells the underlying shares before the applicable holding period is met or if the
Option loses its qualified status and that the Optionee will not be entitled to any damages if the Option no longer qualifies as French-qualified Option.       Plan Terms       The Option is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the French
Plan. To the extent that any term is defined in both the Plan and the French Plan, for purposes of this grant of the Option, the definitions in the French Plan shall prevail.       Holding Period to Benefit from Favorable Tax and Social Security Treatment       Although the
Company does not impose any restrictions on the vesting or exercisability of the Option and/or the sale of the Optionee s Shares, if the Optionee wishes to benefit from the favorable income tax and social security treatment in France, the
shares underlying the Option cannot be sold prior to the fourth (4th) anniversary of the Grant Date (or such other date as may be required to comply with the applicable holding period for French-qualified Options set forth in Section 163
bis C of the French Tax Code, as amended, or as otherwise in keeping with French law). If the holding period for French-qualified Options is not met, this Option may not receive favorable tax and social security treatment under French law.
      Death and Disability       This
provision supplements Section 1.3: Termination Because of Total Disability, of the Agreement:      If the Optionee s employment or
service terminates because of Disability (as defined in the French Plan) while an employee, officer of, or otherwise performing active services for, the Company or a French Subsidiary, then the Option will qualify for favorable French tax and social
security treatment without regard to the holding period set forth by Section 163 bis C of the French Tax Code, as amended.      This
provision replaces Section 1.4: Termination Because of Death, of the Agreement:   
         APP-12

If the Optionee dies while actively employed the Company or a Subsidiary, pursuant to Section 7 of the
French Plan, the Option shall become immediately vested and exercisable in full and may be exercised within six (6) months of the Optionee s death by the executor or administrator of Optonee s estate or any person to whom the Option
is transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Further, the Option will qualify for favorable French tax and social security treatment without regard to the holding period set forth by Section 163 bis C of the French Tax Code,
as amended. Any portion of the Option that is not exercised within six (6) months following the date of the Optionee s death shall terminate and be forfeited.       Shares acquired at exercise of the Option . The Company may require that the shares acquired upon exercise remain with an appointed broker until their sale.   
   Exchange Control Information.  The Optionee may hold shares of Class B Common Stock obtained under the Plan outside of France provided that the
Optionee declares all foreign accounts whether open, current, or closed on his or her annual income tax return.       GERMANY
       Exchange Control Information.  If the Optionee remits proceeds in excess of  12,500 out of or into Germany, such cross-border
payment must be reported monthly to the  Servicezentrum Au enwirtschaftsstatistik  , which is the competent federal office of the Deutsche Bundesbank (the German Central Bank). The Optionee is responsible for the reporting obligation and
should be able to obtain a copy of the form used for this purpose from the German bank used to carry out the transfer.   
   GREECE        Exchange
Control Information.  If the Optionee exercises his or her Option through a cash exercise, withdraws funds from a bank in Greece and remits those funds out of Greece, the Optionee will be required to submit a written application to the bank
containing the following information: (i) amount and currency to be remitted; (ii) account to be debited; (iii) name and contact information of the beneficiary (the person or company to whom the funds are to be remitted);
(iv) bank of the beneficiary with address and code number; (v) account number of the beneficiary; (vi) details of the payment such as the purpose of the transaction ( e.g. , exercise of shares); and (vii) expenses of the
transaction.      If the Optionee exercises his or her Option by way of a cashless method of exercise, this application will not be required since
no funds will be remitted out of Greece.       HONG KONG          Securities Law Information:   Warning: The Option and shares acquired upon exercise of the Option do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available
only to employees of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates. The Plan, the Agreement, and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a
public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. Nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Option is intended only for the personal use of each eligible
   
         APP-13

employee of the Employer, the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate and may not be distributed to any other person. The Optionee is advised to exercise caution in relation to the Option. If the
Optionee is in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, the Optionee should obtain independent professional advice.        Sale Restriction.  Notwithstanding anything contrary in the Agreement or the Plan, in the event the Option vests and the Optionee or his or her heirs and representatives exercise the Option such
that shares are issued to the Optionee or his or her heirs and representatives within six months of the Grant Date, the Optionee agrees that the Optionee or his or her heirs and representatives will not dispose of any shares acquired prior to the
six-month anniversary of the Grant Date.       Nature of Scheme .   The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an
occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance.       HUNGARY    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       INDIA        Method of Exercise.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
the Agreement, due to legal restrictions in India, the Optionee will not be permitted to pay the purchase price by a  sell-to-cover  exercise ( i.e.,  where shares of Class B Common Stock subject to the Option will be sold immediately
upon exercise and the proceeds of the sale will be remitted to the Company to cover the purchase price for the purchased shares and any Tax-Related Items or Fringe Benefit Tax withholding). The Company reserves the right to permit this method of
payment depending on the development of local law.       Repatriation of Proceeds of Sale.  The Optionee agrees to repatriate all proceeds
received from the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock to India within a reasonable time following the sale of the shares of Class B Common Stock or the receipt of any dividends ( i.e. , within 90 days). The Optionee must maintain the foreign
inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company requests proof of repatriation.   It is the Optionee s responsibility to comply with
applicable exchange control laws in India.   
         APP-14

INDONESIA        Exchange Control Information.  If the Optionee remits funds into or out of Indonesia, the Indonesian bank through which the transaction is made will submit a report on the transaction to the Bank of
Indonesia for statistical reporting purposes. For transactions of US$10,000 or more, a description of the transaction must be included in the report. Although the bank through which the transaction is made is required to make the report, the
Optionee must complete a  Transfer Report Form.  The Transfer Report Form will be provided to the Optionee by the bank through which the transaction is to be made.       Method of Exercise.  The following provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:
     Due to regulatory requirements, the Optionee understands that the Optionee will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise. To
complete a cashless sell-all exercise, the Optionee understands that the Optionee needs to instruct his or her broker to: (i) sell all of the shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the purchase price, brokerage fees and
any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in cash to the Optionee. The Optionee will not be permitted to hold shares after exercise. Depending on the development of local laws or the Optionee s country of residence, the
Company reserves the right to modify the methods of exercising the Option and, in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercise, cashless sell-to cover exercise or any other method of exercise and payment of Tax-Related Items permitted under the
Agreement.       ISRAEL        Securities Law Notification.  This offer of the Option does not constitute a public offering under the Securities Law, 1968.       Method of Exercise.  The following provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:
     Due to regulatory requirements, the Optionee understands that the Optionee will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise. To
complete a cashless sell-all exercise, the Optionee understands that the Optionee needs to instruct his or her broker to: (i) sell all of the shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the purchase price, brokerage fees and
any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in cash to the Optionee. The Optionee will not be permitted to hold shares after exercise. Depending on the development of local laws or the Optionee s country of residence, the
Company reserves the right to modify the methods of exercising the Option and, in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercise, cashless sell-to cover exercise or any other method of exercise and payment of Tax-Related Items permitted under the
Agreement.       ITALY        Method of Exercise.  The following provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:
  
         APP-15

Due to regulatory requirements, the Optionee understands that the Optionee will be restricted to the
cashless sell-all method of exercise. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, the Optionee understands that the Optionee needs to instruct his or her broker to: (i) sell all of the shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to
pay the purchase price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and (iii) remit the balance in cash to the Optionee. The Optionee will not be permitted to hold shares after exercise. Depending on the development of local laws or
the Optionee s country of residence, the Company reserves the right to modify the methods of exercising the Option and, in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercise, cashless sell-to cover exercise or any other method of exercise and payment
of Tax-Related Items permitted under the Agreement.       Data Privacy Notice.   This provision replaces Section 4 of the Additional
Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:         The Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer as a data processor
of the Company may hold certain personal information about the Optionee, including, but not limited to, the Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality,
job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the
Optionee s favor, and that the Company and the Employer will process said data and other data lawfully received from third parties (collectively,  Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and
complying with applicable laws, regulations and legislation. The Optionee also understands that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that the
Optionee s denial to provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect the Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. The Optionee understands that Personal Data will
not be publicized, but it may be accessible by the Employer as a data processor of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred
to banks, other financial institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. The Optionee understands that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the
Company, and also to the legitimate addressees under applicable laws. The Optionee further understands that the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation,
administration and management of the Optionee s participation in the Plan, and that the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to a broker or other third party with whom the Optionee may elect to deposit any shares acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such
shares. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan. The Optionee understands
that these recipients may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United
    
         APP-16

States or elsewhere, including countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.     
    Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the
Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan.          The Optionee understands that Personal Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply
with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003.     
    The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as
specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require the Optionee s consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and
management of the Plan. The Optionee understands that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, he or she has the right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or not,
access, verify its content, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To exercise privacy rights the Optionee should address the Data Controller as defined in the
employee privacy policy. Furthermore, the Optionee is aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting the
Optionee s human resources department.         Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the Option, the Optionee acknowledges
that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix and has reviewed the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix in their entirety and fully accepts all provisions thereof. The Optionee further acknowledges that he or she
has read and specifically and expressly approves (a) the following provisions of Exhibit A to the Agreement: (i) Section 9: No Right to Employment or Service; (ii) Section 15: Governing Law; Attorneys  Fees; and
(iii) Section 18: Appendix; (b) the following provisions of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix: (i) Section 2: Responsibility for Taxes; (ii) Section 3: Nature of Grant; and
(iii) Section 5: Language; and (c) the Data Privacy Notice section set forth immediately above in this Appendix.       Exchange
Control Information.  The Optionee is required to report the following on his or her annual tax return: (1) any transfers of cash or shares to or from Italy exceeding  10,000, (2) any foreign investments or investments held outside
of Italy at the end of the calendar year exceeding  10,000 if such investments (e.g., Options, shares of Class B Common Stock, or cash) may result in income taxable in Italy (this will include reporting any vested Options if their intrinsic
value (i.e., the difference between the fair market value of the shares underlying the vested options at the end of the year and the purchase price) combined with other foreign assets exceed  10,000), and (3) the amount of the transfers to
and from abroad which have had an impact during the   
         APP-17

calendar year on the Optionee s foreign investments or investments held outside of Italy. Under certain circumstances, the Optionee may be exempt from the requirement under (1) above if
the transfer or investment is made through an authorized broker resident in Italy.       KOREA    
   Exchange Control Information.  If the Optionee remits funds out of Korea to pay the purchase price, the remittance of funds must be confirmed by a
foreign exchange bank in Korea. The Optionee should submit the following supporting documents evidencing the nature of the remittance to the bank together with the confirmation application: (i) the Agreement; (ii) the Plan; and
(iii) his or her certificate of employment. This confirmation is not necessary if the Optionee pays the purchase price through any form of payment whereby some or all of the shares purchased upon exercise of the Option are sold to pay the
purchase price, because in this case there is no remittance of funds out of Korea.      If the Optionee realizes US$500,000 or more from the sale
of shares or the receipt of dividends, he or she must repatriate the proceeds to Korea within eighteen (18) months of the sale or receipt.       MALAYSIA        Malaysian Insider Trading Notification.  The Optionee should be aware of
the Malaysian insider-trading rules, which may impact his or her acquisition or disposal of shares or rights to shares under the Plan. Under the Malaysian insider-trading rules, the Optionee is prohibited from purchasing or selling shares
( e.g. , an Option, shares) when he or she is in possession of information which is not generally available and which he or she knows or should know will have a material effect on the price of shares once such information is generally
available.       Director Notification Obligation.  If the Optionee is a director of the Company s Malaysian subsidiary, he or she is
subject to certain notification requirements under the Malaysian Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Malaysian subsidiary in writing when the Optionee receives or disposes of an interest ( e.g. , Option,
shares) in the Company or any related company. Such notifications must be made within 14 days of receiving or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.       MEXICO        No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation.  This provision supplements
Section 3 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:      By accepting the Option, the Optionee understands and
agrees that any modification of the Plan or the Agreement or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment.       Policy Statement.  The invitation the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any
time without any liability.   
         APP-18

The Company, with registered offices at One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton OR, 97005, U.S.A., is solely
responsible for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and, in the Optionee s case, the acquisition of shares does not, in any way, establish an employment relationship between the Optionee and the Company since the
Optionee is participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is NIKE de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Ontario 1107, Col. Providencia, C.P. 44630, Guadalajara, Mexico, CP 44620, nor does it establish any rights between the Optionee
and the Employer.       Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the Option, the Optionee acknowledges that he or she has received copies
of the Plan, has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.      In addition, by accepting the Option, the Optionee further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the terms and conditions in Section 3 of the Additional Terms
For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the Plan is offered by the
Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and its parent, subsidiaries and affiliates are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the shares underlying the Option.
     Finally, the Optionee hereby declares that he or she does do not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any
compensation or damages as a result of participation in the Plan and therefore grants a full and broad release to the Employer and the Company and its parent, subsidiaries and affiliates with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan.
      Spanish Translation    
      Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral.    Estas disposiciones complementan el apartado 3 Condiciones adicionales para todos los no-EE.UU.
Optionees en el presente Ap ndice :        Por medio de la aceptaci n de la Opci n, quien tiene la opci n
manifiesta que entiende y acuerda que cualquier modificaci n del Plan o su terminaci n no constituye un cambio o desmejora en los t rminos y condiciones de empleo.           Declaraci n de Pol tica.    La invitaci n por parte de la Compa  a bajo el Plan es unilateral y discrecional y, por lo tanto, la
Compa  a se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad.        La Compa  a, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton OR, 97005, EE.UU., es la  nica responsable por la administraci n del Plan y de la
participaci n en el mismo y, en el caso del que tiene la opci n, la adquisici n de acciones no establece de forma alguna, una relaci n de trabajo entre el que tiene la opci n y la Compa  a, ya que la
participaci n en el Plan por parte del que tiene la opci n es completamente comercial y el  nico patr n es NIKE de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Ontario 1107, Col. Providencia, C.P. 44630, Guadalajara, Mexico, CP 44620, as 
como tampoco establece ning n derecho entre el que tiene la opci n y el patr n.    
         APP-19

Reconocimiento del Plan de Documentos.    Por medio de la aceptaci n de la
Opci n, el que tiene la opci n reconoce que ha recibido copias del Plan, que el mismo ha sido revisado al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo.
       Adicionalmente, por medio de la aceptaci n de la Opci n, el que tiene la opci n reconoce que ha le do, y
que aprueba espec fica y expresamente los t rminos y condiciones contenidos en el apartado 3 Condiciones adicionales para todos los no-EE.UU. Optionees en el presente Ap ndice, secci n en la cual se encuentra claramente
descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la participaci n en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participaci n en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compa  a de forma enteramente discrecional;
(iii) la participaci n en el Plan es voluntaria; y (iv) la Compa  a, as  como su sociedad controlante, subsidiaria or filiales no son responsables por cualquier detrimento en el valor de las acciones en
relaci n con la Opci n.        Finalmente, por medio de la presente quien tiene la opci n declara que no se reserva
ninguna acci n o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la Compa  a por compensaci n, da o o perjuicio alguno como resultado de la participaci n en el Plan y en consecuencia, otorga el m s
amplio finiquito a su patr n, as  como a la Compa  a, a su sociedad controlante, subsidiaria or filiales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan.    
   NETHERLANDS        Labor
Law Acknowledgment.  By accepting the Option, the Optionee acknowledges that: (i) the Option is intended as an incentive for the Optionee to remain employed with the Employer and is not intended as remuneration for labor performed; and
(ii) the Option is not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation.       Securities Law Information.  The Optionee should be
aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Option. In particular, the Optionee may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions if he or she has inside
information about the Company.      Under Article 5:56 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, anyone who has  insider information 
related to an issuing company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or from the Netherlands.  Inside information  is defined as knowledge of specific information concerning the issuing company to which the
securities relate or the trade in securities issued by such company, which has not been made public and which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the development of the price. The insider could be any
employee of the Company or a subsidiary in the Netherlands who has inside information as described herein.      Given the broad scope of the
definition of inside information, an Optionee working at a subsidiary or affiliate in the Netherlands may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when he or
she has such inside information.   
         APP-20

If the Optionee is uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to him or her, then the Optionee
should consult with his or her personal legal advisor.        NEW ZEALAND    
   Securities Law Notification.  The Optionee will receive the following documents (in addition to this Appendix) in connection with the Option grant:

(i)  
  an Agreement which sets forth the terms and conditions of the Option grant;     

(ii)  
  a copy of the Company s most recent annual report and most recent financial reports that have been made publicly available to enable the Optionee to make informed
decisions concerning the Option; and         

(iii)  
  a copy of a summary of the Plan ( Summary ) ( i.e. , the Company s Form S-8 Plan Prospectus under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended), and
the Company will provide any attachments or documents incorporated by reference into the Summary upon written request. The documents incorporated by reference into the Summary are updated periodically. Should the Optionee request copies of the
documents incorporated by reference into the Summary, the Company will provide the Optionee with the most recent documents incorporated by reference.         NORWAY       There are not country-specific provisions.   
   PHILIPPINES    
     Securities Law Information   . The sale or disposal of shares of Class B Common Stock acquired under the Plan may be subject to certain
restrictions under Philippines securities laws. Those restrictions should not apply if the offer and resale of Class B Common Stock takes place outside of the Philippines through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the shares of Class B
Common Stock are listed. The shares of Class B Common Stock are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The Optionee s designated broker should be able to assist the Optionee in the sale of shares of Class B Common Stock on the New
York Stock Exchange.  If the Optionee has questions with regard to the application of Philippines securities laws to the disposal or sale of the shares of Class B Common Stock acquired under the Plan then the Optionee should consult with his or
her legal advisor.        POLAND        Exchange Control Information.  If the Optionee transfers funds in excess of  15,000 into or out of Poland in connection with the purchase or sale of shares acquired upon exercise of the Option,
the funds must be transferred via a bank in Poland. The Optionee is required to retain the documents connected with a foreign exchange transaction for a period of five (5) years, as measured from the end of the year in which such transaction
occurred.   
         APP-21

Further, if the Optionee holds shares acquired upon exercise of the Option and/or maintains a bank or
brokerage account abroad, the Optionee will have reporting duties to the National Bank of Poland if the total value of securities and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN7 million. The Optionee must file such reports on the transactions
and balances of the accounts on a quarterly basis.      The Optionee should consult with his or her personal legal advisor to determine what he or she must do to fulfill any applicable reporting duties.    
   PORTUGAL        Language
Consent.  The Optionee hereby expressly declares that he or she has full knowledge of the English language and has read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement.   
   O Contratado, pelo presente instrumento, declara expressamente que tem pleno conhecimento da l ngua inglesa e que leu, compreendeu e livremente
aceitou e concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no Plano e no Acordo de Atribui  o (Agreement em ingl s).        Exchange Control Information.  If the Optionee holds shares purchased upon exercise of the Option, the acquisition of shares should be reported to the Banco de Portugal for statistical purposes. If
the shares are deposited with a commercial bank or financial intermediary in Portugal, such bank or financial intermediary will submit the report on the Optionee s behalf. If the shares are not deposited with a commercial bank or financial
intermediary in Portugal, the Optionee is responsible for submitting the report to the Banco de Portugal.       RUSSIA
       U.S. Transaction.  Upon exercise of the Option, any shares to be issued to the employee shall be delivered to the Optionee through
a bank or brokerage account in the United States. The Optionee is not permitted to sell the shares of Class B Common Stock directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals.       Securities Law Notification.  This Appendix, the Agreement, the Plan and all other materials that the Optionee may receive regarding participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an
offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of securities pursuant to the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; hence, the securities described in any Plan-related documents may not be used for offering or public circulation in
Russia.       Exchange Control Information.  In order to perform a cash exercise of the Option, the Optionee must remit the funds from a
foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia. This requirement does not apply if the Optionee uses a cashless method of exercise, such that there is no remittance of funds out of Russia.     
  Under current exchange control regulations, within a reasonably short time after sale of the shares acquired upon exercise of the Option, the Optionee
must repatriate the sale proceeds to Russia. Such sale proceeds must be initially credited to the Optionee through a foreign currency account at an authorized bank in Russia. After the sale proceeds are initially received in Russia, they may be
further remitted to foreign banks in accordance with Russian exchange control laws. If the Optionee exercises his or her Option through a cashless sell-all method of exercise   
         APP-22

(whereby the Optionee instructs the broker to sell all of the shares issued upon exercise of his or her Option, use the proceeds to pay the purchase price, brokerage fees and any Tax-Related
Items and remit the balance in cash to the Optionee), to the extent that the Optionee receives the exercise proceeds through the Optionee s local payroll, the requirement to credit the proceeds through a Russian authorized bank will not apply
to the Optionee.      The Optionee is encouraged to contact his or her personal advisor before remitting the Optionee s sale proceeds to
Russia as exchange control requirements may change.       SINGAPORE        Securities Law Notification  .      The Options were granted to the Optionee pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the Singapore
Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). The Company has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. The Optionee should note that his or her Options are subject to section 257
of the SFA and the Optionee will not be able to make any subsequent sale in Singapore, or any offer of such subsequent sale of the shares of Class B Common Stock underlying the Option unless such sale or offer in Singapore is made pursuant to the
exemptions under Part XIII Division (1) Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the SFA (Cap 289, 2006 Ed.).       Director
Notification Obligation.  If the Optionee is a director, associate director or shadow director of a Singapore subsidiary of the Company, the Optionee is subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these
requirements is an obligation to notify the Singaporean subsidiary in writing when the Optionee receives an interest ( e.g ., Option, shares) in the Company or any related companies. Please contact the Company to obtain a copy of the
notification form. In addition, the Optionee must notify the Singapore subsidiary when the Optionee sells shares of the Company or any related company (including when the Optionee sells shares acquired under the Plan). These notifications must be
made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company. In addition, a notification must be made of the Optionee s interests in the Company or any related company within two business days
of becoming a director.       Prohibition Against Insider Trading.  The Optionee should be aware of the Singaporean insider-trading rules,
which may impact the Optionee s acquisition or disposal of shares or rights to shares under the Plan. Under the Singaporean insider-trading rules, the Optionee is prohibited from acquiring or selling shares or rights to shares (e.g., an Option
under the Plan) when the Optionee is in possession of information which is not generally available and which the Optionee knows or should know will have a material effect on the price of shares once such information is generally available.
      SOUTH AFRICA    
   Responsibility for Taxes.  The following provision supplements Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:
     By accepting the Option, the Optionee agrees that, immediately upon exercise of the Option, he or she will notify the Employer of the amount
of any gain realized. If the Optionee fails to   
         APP-23

advise the Employer of the gain realized upon exercise, he or she may be liable for a fine. The Optionee will be solely responsible for paying any difference between the actual tax liability and
the amount withheld.       Tax Clearance Certificate for Cash Exercises.  If the Optionee exercises the Option using a cash exercise method,
the Optionee must obtain and provide to the Employer, or any third party designated by the Employer or the Company, a Tax Clearance Certificate (with respect to Foreign Investments) bearing the official stamp and signature of the Exchange Control
Department of the South African Revenue Service ( SARS ). The Optionee must renew this Tax Clearance Certificate every twelve months, or such other period as may be required by the SARS. If the Optionee exercises by a cashless exercise
method whereby no funds are remitted out of South Africa, no Tax Clearance Certificate is required.       Exchange Control Information.  The
Optionee should consult his or her personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control regulations in South Africa; as such regulations are subject to frequent change. The Optionee is responsible for ensuring compliance with all
exchange control laws in South Africa.       SPAIN        Nature of Grant.  This provision supplements Section 3 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:      In accepting the Option, the Optionee consents to participate in the Plan and acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan.      The Optionee understands that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant stock options under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a subsidiary
or affiliate throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate. Consequently, the
Optionee understands that the Option is granted on the assumption and condition that the Option and any shares acquired upon exercise of the Option are not part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate) and
shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. In addition, the Optionee understands that the Option would not be granted to the Optionee but for the assumptions
and conditions referred to herein; thus, the Optionee acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then the grant of this Option shall be null and
void.      This Option is a conditional right to shares of Class B Common Stock and can be forfeited in the case of, or affected by, the
Optionee s termination of employment. This will be the case, for example, even if (1) the Optionee is considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause; (2) the Optionee is dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due
to a collective dismissal; (3) the Optionee terminates employment due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition; (4) the Optionee terminates employment due to unilateral breach of contract of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries; or (5) the Optionee s employment   
         APP-24

terminates for any other reason whatsoever, except for reasons specified in Sections 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, or 1.6 of Exhibit A to the Agreement. Consequently, upon termination of the Optionee s
employment for any of the reasons set forth above, the Optionee may automatically lose any rights to the unvested Options granted to him or her as of the date of the Optionee s termination of employment, as described in the Plan and the Exhibit
A to the Agreement.       Exchange Control Information.  The Optionee must declare the acquisition and sale of shares to the
 Direcci n General de Comercio y Inversiones  (the  DGCI ) for statistical purposes. Because the Optionee will not purchase or sell the shares through the use of a Spanish financial institution, the Optionee must make the
declaration himself or herself by filing a D-6 form with the DGCI. Generally, the D-6 form must be filed each January while the shares are owned.      When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of shares ( i.e. , cash dividends or sale proceeds) exceeding  50,000, the Optionee must inform the financial institution
receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. The Optionee will need to provide the financial institution with the following information: (i) the Optionee s name, address and fiscal identification number;
(ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment; (iv) the currency used; (v) the country of origin; (vi) the reasons for the payment; and (vii) additional information that may be
required.       Securities Law Information.  No  offer of securities to the public,  as defined under Spanish law, has taken place
or will take place in the Spanish territory in connection with the grant of the Options. The Agreement has not been nor will it be registered with the  Comisi n Nacional del Mercado de Valores , and does not constitute a public offering
prospectus.       SWEDEN        Tax Reporting Information.  When the Optionee exercises the Option, the employer is required to report and withhold preliminary income tax on the spread at exercise. However, it is the
Optionee s obligation to inform the employer, no later than the month after exercise, that the Optionee has exercised the Option and to disclose the taxable amount.       SWITZERLAND        Securities Law Information.  The grant of the Option is considered a
private offering in Switzerland and is, therefore, not subject to registration in Switzerland.       Method of Exercise .   The
following provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:      Due to regulatory requirements, the Optionee understands that the Optionee will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, the Optionee
understands that the Optionee needs to instruct his or her broker to: (i) sell all of the shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the purchase price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and
(iii) remit the balance in cash to the Optionee. The Optionee will not be permitted to hold shares after exercise. Depending on the development of local laws or the Optionee s country of residence, the Company reserves the right to modify
the methods of exercising the Option and, in its sole discretion, to permit cash exercise, cashless sell-to cover   
         APP-25

exercise or any other method of exercise and payment of Tax-Related Items permitted under the Agreement.       TAIWAN        Exchange Control Information.  The Optionee may acquire and remit foreign
currency (including proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock and the receipt of any dividends) into and out of Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, the Optionee must
submit a foreign exchange transaction form and also provide supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank.      If the
transaction amount is US$500,000 or more, the Optionee may be required to provide additional supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the remitting bank. The Optionee should consult his or her personal advisor to ensure compliance with
applicable exchange control laws in Taiwan.       THAILAND        Exchange Control Information.  If the Optionee remits funds out of Thailand to exercise his or her Option, it is the Optionee s responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws.
Under current exchange control regulations, Optionee may remit funds out of Thailand up to U.S.$1,000,000 per year to purchase shares (and otherwise invest in securities abroad) by submitting an application to an authorized agent, (i.e., a
commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency). The application includes the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form, a letter describing the Option, a copy of the Plan and
related documents, and evidence showing the nexus between the Company and the Employer. If the Optionee uses a cashless method of exercise that does not involve remitting funds out of Thailand, this requirement does not apply.     
  When the Optionee sells shares issued upon exercise of the Option or receives dividends, if the amount of the Optionee s proceeds in a single
transaction exceeds US$50,000, the Optionee must (i) immediately repatriate the cash proceeds to Thailand, and then convert such proceeds to Thai Baht within 360 days of repatriation (ii) specifically report the inward remittance to the
Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If the Optionee fails to comply with these obligations, the Optionee may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.      The Optionee should consult his or her personal advisor prior to taking any action with respect to remittance of proceeds from the sale of shares into Thailand. The Optionee is responsible for ensuring
compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand.       TURKEY        Exchange Control Information.  Exchange control regulations require Turkish residents to purchase securities through financial intermediary institutions that are approved under the Capital Market
Law ( i.e. , banks licensed in Turkey). Therefore, if the Optionee exercises his or her Option using a cash exercise method, the funds must be remitted through a bank or other financial institution licensed in Turkey. A wire transfer of funds
by a Turkish bank will satisfy   
         APP-26

this requirement. This requirement does not apply to a cashless exercise, as no funds are remitted out of Turkey.       UNITED KINGDOM        UK Sub-Plan.  The Option is granted under the Rules of the UK
Sub-Plan to the NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the  UK Sub-Plan ). By accepting this Option grant, the Optionee agrees to all of the terms and conditions of the Option grant, including the UK Sub-Plan.   
  The following specific modifications to the Agreement apply in relation to the Option granted under the UK Sub-Plan:   
   Section 5.  No adjustment to the Option granted under the UK Sub-Plan shall take effect until it has been approved by HM Revenue and Customs
( HMRC ).       Section 6.1.1.  The Option granted under the UK Sub-Plan may be exchanged for shares of a surviving or
acquiring corporation only in circumstances where the requirements of paragraphs 26 and 27 of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 are satisfied.       Section 7.  The NIKE, Inc. Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation shall not apply to any shares acquired pursuant to the Option granted under the UK Sub-Plan.   
   Tax Obligations.  The following provisions supplement Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:
     The Optionee agrees that, if Optionee does not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from the Optionee the full amount of
income tax that the Optionee owes at exercise of the Option, or the release or assignment of the Option for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Option (the  Taxable Event ) within 90 days after the
Taxable Event, or such other period specified in section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by the Optionee to the Employer, effective 90
days after the Taxable Event. The Optionee agrees that the loan will bear interest at the HMRC s official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by the Optionee, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter
by withholding the funds from salary, bonus or any other funds due to the Optionee by the Employer, by withholding in shares issued upon exercise of the Option or from the cash proceeds from the sale of shares or by demanding cash or a check from
the Optionee. The Optionee also authorizes the Company to delay the issuance of any shares unless and until the loan is repaid in full.   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Optionee is an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that the Optionee is an officer or executive director and income tax is not collected from or paid by the Optionee within 90 days of the
Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to the Optionee on which additional income tax and National Insurance Contributions may be payable. The Optionee acknowledges that the Company or the Employer may
recover any such additional income tax and National Insurance Contributions at any time thereafter by any of the   
         APP-27

means referred to in Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix, although the Optionee acknowledges that he/she ultimately will be responsible for
reporting any income tax or National Insurance Contributions due on this additional benefit directly to the HMRC under the self-assessment regime.       URUGUAY       There are no country-specific provisions.   
   VIETNAM        Method of
Exercise . The following provision supplements Section 2 of Exhibit A to the Agreement and Section 2 of the Additional Terms For All Non-U.S. Optionees in this Appendix:      Due to regulatory requirements, the Optionee understands that the Optionee will be restricted to the cashless sell-all method of exercise. To complete a cashless sell-all exercise, the Optionee
understands that the Optionee needs to instruct his or her broker to: (i) sell all of the shares issued upon exercise; (ii) use the proceeds to pay the purchase price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax-Related Items; and
(iii) remit the balance in cash to the Optionee. The Optionee will not be permitted to hold shares after exercise. Depending on the development of local laws or the Optionee s country of residence, the Company reserves the right to modify
the methods of exercising the Option and, in its sole discretion, to permit any other method of exercise and payment of Tax-Related Items permitted under the Agreement.       Exchange Control Information.  All cash proceeds from the sale of shares as described above must be immediately repatriated to Vietnam. Such repatriation of proceeds may need to be effectuated
through a special exchange control account established by the Company or its subsidiary or affiliate, including the Employer. By accepting the Option, the Optionee consents and agrees that the cash proceeds may be transferred to such special account
prior to being delivered to the Optionee.   
         APP-28

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 d341264dex107.htm
 NIKE, INC. EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE SHARING PLAN

NIKE, Inc. Executive Performance Sharing Plan 

Exhibit 10.7        NIKE, Inc.        Executive Performance Sharing Plan    
  This is the Executive Performance Sharing Plan of NIKE, Inc. for the payment of incentive compensation to designated employees.
      Section 1. Definitions.  The following terms have the following meanings:   
   Board : The Board of Directors of the Company.       Code : The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.       Committee : The
Compensation Committee of the Board, provided however, if the Compensation Committee of the Board is not composed entirely of Outside Directors, the  Committee  shall mean a committee composed entirely of at least two Outside Directors
appointed by the Board from time to time.       Company : NIKE, Inc.   
   Exchange Act : The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
   Outside Directors : The meaning ascribed to this term in Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations proposed or adopted
thereunder.       Performance Target : An objectively determinable level of performance as selected by the Committee to
measure performance of the Company or any subsidiary, division, or other unit of the Company for the Year based on one or more of the following: net income, net income before taxes, operating income, earnings before interest and taxes, revenues,
return on sales, return on equity, earnings per share, total shareholder return, or any of the foregoing before the effect of acquisitions, divestitures, accounting changes, restructuring, or other special charges, as determined by the Committee at
the time of establishing a Performance Target.       Plan : The Executive Performance Sharing Plan of the Company.   
   Target Award : An amount of cash compensation to be paid to a Plan participant based on achievement of a particular Performance
Target level established by the Committee, expressed as a percentage of the participant s base salary at the beginning of the Year, determined in accordance with guidelines established by the Committee.   
   Year : The fiscal year of the Company.       Section 2. Objectives . The objectives of the Plan are to:      (a)
recognize and reward on an annual basis the Company s corporate officers for their contributions to the overall profitability and performance of the Company; and      (b) qualify compensation under the Plan as  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.   
   Section 3. Administration . The Plan will be administered by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
Committee will have full authority to interpret the Plan, to establish and amend rules and regulations relating to it, to determine the terms and provisions for making awards and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the
administration of the Plan.       Section 4. Participation . Participation in the Plan shall be limited to individuals
who are corporate officers of the Company.   

Section 5. Determination of the Performance Targets and Awards . The Committee
shall determine, in its sole discretion, the Performance Targets and Target Award opportunities for each participant, within 90 days of the beginning of each Year. The Committee may establish (i) several Performance Target levels for each
participant, each corresponding to a different Target Award opportunity, and (ii) different Performance Targets and Target Award opportunities for each participant in the Plan. The maximum Target Award opportunity under the Plan for a
participant in any Year shall be $5 million.       Section 6. Determination of Plan Awards . At the conclusion of the
Year, in accordance with Section 162(m)(4)(C)(iii) of the Code, prior to the payment of any award under the Plan, the Committee shall certify in the Committee s internal meeting minutes the attainment of the Performance Targets for the
Year and the calculation of the awards. No award shall be paid if the related Performance Target is not met. In no event shall an award to any participant exceed $5 million. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, reduce or eliminate any
participant s calculated award based on circumstances relating to the performance of the Company or the participant. Awards will be paid in cash as soon as practicable following the Committee s certification of the awards.   
   Section 7. Termination of Employment . The terms of a Target Award may provide that in the event of a participant s
termination of employment for any reason during a Year, the participant (or his or her beneficiary) will receive, at the time provided in Section 6, all or any portion of the award to which the participant would otherwise have been entitled.
      Section 8. Clawback Policy . Unless otherwise provided at the time of establishing a Target Award, all awards
under the Plan shall be subject to the NIKE, Inc. Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation as approved by the Committee and in effect at the time the Target Award is established or such other policy for  clawback  of incentive
compensation as may be approved from time to time by the Committee. By acceptance of any payment of any Award each participant expressly agrees to repay to the Company any amount that may be required to be repaid under the applicable policy.
      Section 9. Miscellaneous .      (a)  Amendment and Termination of the Plan . The Committee with the approval of the Board may amend, modify or terminate the Plan at any time and from time to time except insofar as approval by the
Company s shareholders is required pursuant to Section 162(m)(4)(C)(ii) of the Code. The Plan shall terminate at the first shareholder meeting that occurs in the fifth Year after the Company s shareholders approve the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment, modification or termination shall affect the payment of Target Awards previously established.      (b)  No Assignment . Except as otherwise required by applicable law, no interest, benefit, payment, claim or right of any participant under the plan shall be subject in any manner to any claims of
any creditor of any participant or beneficiary, nor to alienation by anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, bankruptcy, pledge, attachment, charge or encumbrance of any kind, and any attempt to take any such action shall be null and void.
     (c)  No Rights to Employment . Nothing contained in the Plan shall give any person the right to be retained in the
employment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The Company reserves the right to terminate a participant at any time for any reason notwithstanding the existence of the Plan.   
  (d)  Beneficiary Designation . The Committee shall establish such procedures as it deems necessary for a participant to designate a
beneficiary to whom any amounts would be payable in the event of a participant s death.      (e)  Plan Unfunded . The
entire cost of the Plan shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. The rights of any person to receive benefits under the Plan shall be only those of a general unsecured creditor, and neither the Company nor the Board nor the Committee
shall be responsible for the adequacy of the general assets of the Company to meet and discharge Plan liabilities, nor shall the Company be required to reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment of its obligations hereunder.   
  (f)  Applicable Law . The Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State
of Oregon.   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.18>
 4
 d341264dex1018.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT UNDER THE 1990 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the 1990 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.18        NIKE, INC.        GLOBAL RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT    
  Pursuant to paragraph 7 of the 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the   Plan  ) of NIKE, Inc., an Oregon corporation (the
  Company  ), and effective as of             (the   Grant Date  ), the Company hereby grants restricted stock units ( RSUs ) to
            (the   Recipient  ), subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement between the Company and the Recipient (this   Agreement  ). By accepting
this RSU grant, the Recipient agrees to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any special terms and conditions for non-U.S. Recipients in the attached Appendix A and any country-specific terms and conditions in the attached
Appendix B. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.      1.  Grant of Restricted
Stock Units; Dividend Equivalents . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company hereby grants to the Recipient             RSUs. The grant of RSUs obligates the
Company, upon vesting in accordance with this Agreement, to deliver to the Recipient one share of Class B Common Stock of the Company (a   Share  ) for each RSU. Upon vesting of each RSU, the Company also agrees to make a dividend
equivalent cash payment with respect to each vested RSU in an amount equal to the total amount of dividends paid per share of Class B Common Stock for which the dividend record dates occurred after the Grant Date and before the date of delivery of
the underlying Shares. The RSUs are subject to forfeiture as set forth in Section 4 below.      2.  Vesting .   
  2.1  Generally . All of the RSUs shall initially be unvested, and shall vest with respect to the total number of RSUs on the
            anniversary of the Grant Date (provided that the Recipient is employed by or in the service of the Company on the applicable vesting date). For purposes of this Agreement, the
Recipient is considered to be employed by or in the service of the Company if the Recipient is employed by or in the service of the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation of the Company (an   Employer  ). For purposes of the
RSUs, the Recipient s employment or service relationship will be considered terminated as of the date the Recipient is no longer actively providing services to the Company or the Employer (regardless of the reason for such termination and
whether or not later to be found invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Recipient is employed or the terms of the Recipient s employment agreement, if any), and unless otherwise expressly provided in this
Agreement or determined by the Company, the Recipient s right to vest in the RSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate as of such date and will not be extended by any notice period ( e.g. , the Recipient s period of service would
not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Recipient is employed or the terms of the Recipient s employment agreement, if
any); the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the   Committee  ) shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Recipient is no longer actively providing services for purposes of the RSUs grant
(including whether the Recipient may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence).   

2.2  Acceleration Upon Death or Disability . If the Recipient ceases to be employed by
or in the service of the Company as a result of death or physical disability (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), all of the RSUs shall immediately vest.      2.3  Double Trigger Acceleration on Change in Control . All of the RSUs shall immediately vest if a Change in Control (as defined below) occurs and at any time after the earlier of Shareholder
Approval (as defined below), if any, or the Change in Control and on or before the second anniversary of the Change in Control, (i) the Recipient s employment or service is terminated by the Company (or its successor) without Cause (as
defined below), or (ii) the Recipient s employment or service is terminated by the Recipient for Good Reason (as defined below); provided, however, that the RSUs may also immediately vest in connection with a Change in Control as provided
in Section 9.2 below.      2.3.1 For purposes of this Agreement, a   Change in Control   of the Company shall
mean the occurrence of any of the following events:      (a) At any time during a period of two consecutive years,
individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Company (  Incumbent Directors  ) shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof; provided, however, that the term
 Incumbent Director  shall also include each new director elected during such two-year period whose nomination or election was approved by two-thirds of the Incumbent Directors then in office;   
  (b) At any time that the holders of the Class A Common Stock of the Company have the right to elect (voting as a
separate class) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company, any  person  or  group  (within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) shall, as a result of a tender or exchange offer,
open market purchases or privately negotiated purchases from anyone other than the Company, have become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than fifty percent (50%) of
the then outstanding Class A Common Stock of the Company;      (c) At any time after such time as the holders
of the Class A Common Stock of the Company cease to have the right to elect (voting as a separate class) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company, any  person  or  group  (within the meaning of
Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) shall, as a result of a tender or exchange offer, open market purchases or privately negotiated purchases from anyone other than the Company, have become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company ordinarily having the right to vote for the election of directors ( Voting Securities ) representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined
voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities;      (d) A consolidation, merger or plan of exchange
involving the Company (  Merger  ) as a result of which the holders of outstanding Voting Securities immediately prior to the Merger do not continue to hold at least 50% of the combined voting power of the outstanding Voting
Securities of the surviving corporation or a parent   
         2   

corporation of the surviving corporation immediately after the Merger, disregarding any Voting Securities issued to or retained by such holders in respect of securities of any other party to the
Merger; or      (e) A sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related
transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.      2.3.2 For purposes of this Agreement,
  Shareholder Approval   shall mean approval by the shareholders of the Company of a transaction, the consummation of which would be a Change in Control.      2.3.3 For purposes of this Agreement,   Cause   shall mean (a) the willful and continued failure to perform substantially the Recipient s reasonably assigned duties with the
Company or the Employer (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Recipient by the Company or the Employer which specifically identifies
the manner in which the Company or the Employer believes that the Recipient has not substantially performed the Recipient s duties, or (b) the willful engagement in illegal conduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the
Company or the Employer. No act, or failure to act, shall be considered  willful  if the Recipient reasonably believed that the action or omission was in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company or the Employer.   
  2.3.4 For purposes of this Agreement,   Good Reason   shall mean:   
  (a) the assignment of a different title, job or responsibilities that results in a decrease in the level of responsibility
of the Recipient after Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control when compared to the Recipient s level of responsibility for the Company s or the Employer s operations prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable,
or the Change in Control; provided that Good Reason shall not exist if the Recipient continues to have the same or a greater general level of responsibility for Company operations after the Change in Control as the Recipient had prior to the Change
in Control even if the Company operations are a subsidiary or division of the surviving company,      (b) a
reduction in the Recipient s base pay as in effect immediately prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control,      (c) a material reduction in total benefits available to the Recipient under cash incentive, stock incentive and other employee benefit plans after Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in
Control compared to the total package of such benefits as in effect prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control, or      (d) the Recipient is required to be based more than 50 miles from where the Recipient s office is located immediately prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control except for
required travel on company business to an extent substantially consistent with the business travel obligations which the Recipient   
         3   

undertook on behalf of the Company prior to Shareholder Approval, if applicable, or the Change in Control.      3.  Delivery . Subject to Section 6 (Responsibility for Taxes) and Section 12.1 (Compliance with Law) and except as provided in Sections 4, 9 and 10 hereof, within 30 days after any of the
RSUs become vested, the Company shall deliver to the Recipient (a) the number of Shares underlying the RSUs that vested in either certificated form, uncertificated form or via book entry credit, and (b) the dividend equivalent cash payment
determined under Section 1 with respect to the number of RSUs that vested (the   Dividend Equivalent Payment  ).      4.
 Forfeiture Restriction . If the Recipient ceases to be employed by or in the service of the Company for any reason or for no reason, with or without Cause, any RSUs that did not vest pursuant to Section 2 above at or prior to the time of
such termination of employment or service shall be forfeited to the Company; provided, however, that if the Recipient s employment or service is terminated by the Company without Cause or by the Recipient for Good Reason after Shareholder
Approval but before a Change in Control, any RSUs that are forfeited under this sentence shall be restored to the Recipient and vested if a Change in Control subsequently occurs within one year following the Recipient s termination of
employment or service; provided, however, that if the Recipient is a U.S. taxpayer and the Change in Control does not constitute a  change in control event,  within the meaning of Code Section 409A of the Code, the (i) underlying
Shares, or if the Shares are converted into cash or other stock, securities or property in connection with the Change in Control, the proceeds that are delivered to holders of Shares in connection with the Change in Control, and (ii) the
Dividend Equivalent Payment will be delivered to the Recipient (or the Recipient s estate) instead on a date that is within 30 days following the earliest to occur of (i) the vesting date contemplated under Section 2.1 hereof or
(ii) the Recipient s death. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Recipient any right to be employed by the Company or any Employer or to continue to provide services to the Company or any Employer or to interfere in
any way with the right of the Company or any Employer to terminate the Recipient s services at any time for any reason, with or without Cause.      5.  Restriction on Transfer . The RSUs are nonassignable and nontransferable by the Recipient, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of
the state or country of the Recipient s domicile at the time of death.      6.  Responsibility for Taxes . The Recipient acknowledges
that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or, if different, the Employer the ultimate liability for all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the
Recipient s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Recipient or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to the Recipient even if technically due by the Company or the Employer (  Tax-Related
Items  ), is and remains the Recipient s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. The Recipient further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations
or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSUs, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or settlement of the RSUs, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such
settlement and the receipt of any dividends or any Dividend Equivalent Payment, and (2) do not commit to and   
         4   

are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate the Recipient s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax
result. Further, if the Recipient is subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Recipient acknowledges that the Company
and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Recipient agrees to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.
     In this regard, the Recipient authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to
satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:       

(1)  
  withholding from any Dividend Equivalent Payment;         

(2)  
  withholding from the Recipient s wages or other cash compensation paid to the Recipient by the Company and/or the Employer; or     

(3)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting/settlement of the RSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the
Company (on the Recipient s behalf pursuant to this authorization); or         

(4)  
  withholding in Shares to be issued upon settlement of the RSUs.        Notwithstanding the above, if the Recipient is a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, as amended, then the Company will withhold in Shares to be issued upon settlement of the
RSUs, unless the use of such withholding method is problematic under applicable tax or securities law or has materially adverse accounting consequences, in which case the Recipient may elect the form of withholding from the alternatives above.
     Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable
minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case the Recipient will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Common Stock
equivalent. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, the Recipient is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the
Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items .      Finally, the Recipient agrees to pay to the
Company or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Recipient s participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously
described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if the Recipient fails to comply with the Recipient s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.   
         5   

7.  Rights as Shareholder . Until delivery of the Shares underlying the vested RSUs to the Recipient,
the Recipient has only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of the Company.      8.  Changes in Capital
Structure . If, prior to the full vesting of all of the RSUs granted under this Agreement, the outstanding Class B Common Stock of the Company is increased or decreased or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or
other securities of the Company by reason of any recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, combination of shares or dividend payable in shares, appropriate adjustment shall be made by the Committee in the number and kind of shares subject to
the unvested RSUs so that the Recipient s proportionate interest before and after the occurrence of the event is maintained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall have no obligation to effect any adjustment that would or might
result in the issuance of fractional shares, and any fractional shares resulting from any adjustment may be disregarded or provided for in any manner determined by the Committee. Any such adjustments made by the Committee shall be conclusive.
     9.  Sale of the Company . If there shall occur a merger, consolidation or plan of exchange involving the Company pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock of the Company are converted into cash or other stock, securities or property, or a sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially
all, the assets of the Company, then either:      9.1 the unvested RSUs shall be converted into restricted stock units for stock
of the surviving or acquiring corporation in the applicable transaction, with the amount and type of shares subject thereto to be conclusively determined by the Committee, taking into account the relative values of the companies involved in the
applicable transaction and the exchange rate, if any, used in determining shares of the surviving corporation to be held by the former holders of the Company s Class B Common Stock following the applicable transaction, and disregarding
fractional shares; or      9.2 all of the unvested RSUs shall immediately vest and all underlying Shares and the Dividend
Equivalent Payment shall be delivered simultaneously with the closing of the applicable transaction such that the Recipient will participate as a shareholder in receiving proceeds from such transaction with respect to those Shares; provided,
however, that if the Recipient is a U.S. taxpayer and the corporate transaction resulting in the vesting acceleration is not a  change in control event  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, the (i) underlying Shares,
or if the Shares are converted into cash or other stock, securities or property in connection with the transaction, the proceeds that are delivered to holders of Shares in connection with the transaction, and (ii) Dividend Equivalent Payment
will be delivered to the Recipient (or the Recipients  estate, if applicable) instead on a date that is within 30 days following the earliest to occur of (A) the vesting date contemplated under Section 2.1 hereof, (B) the
Recipient s  separation from service  (as described below in Section 10 hereof), or (C) the Recipient s death.   
  10.  Section 409A . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event that the Recipient is a U.S. taxpayer, Shares
underlying and Dividend Equivalent Payments related to RSUs that constitute non-qualified deferred compensation under Section 409A of the   
         6   

Code and which become payable by reason of the Recipient s termination of employment or service shall not be issued or paid to the Recipient unless the Recipient s termination of
employment or service constitutes a  separation from service  (within the meaning of Code 409A of the Code). In addition, any delivery or distribution contemplated under the foregoing sentence will be made to a Recipient who is a
 specified employee  (as defined in the NIKE, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan) at the time of the separation from service within 30 days following the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six-month period following the
Recipient s separation from service, and (ii) the Recipient s death, to the extent such delayed payment is otherwise required to avoid a prohibited distribution under Section 409A of the Code. If the Recipient is a U.S. taxpayer,
the RSUs granted hereunder are intended to be compliant with Section 409A of the Code, and shall be interpreted, construed and operated to reflect this intent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement and the Plan may be amended at any
time, without the consent of any party, to the extent necessary or desirable to satisfy any of the requirements under Section 409A of the Code, but the Company shall not be under any obligation to make any such amendment. Nothing in this
Agreement or the Plan shall provide a basis for any person to take action against the Company or any affiliate based on matters covered by Section 409A of the Code, including the tax treatment of any amount paid or RSUs granted under this
Agreement, and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall under any circumstances have any liability to the Recipient or his or her estate or any other party for any taxes, penalties or interest due on amounts paid or payable under this
Agreement, including taxes, penalties or interest imposed under Section 409A of the Code.      11.  Clawback Policy . The Recipient
acknowledges and agrees that all shares acquired by Recipient under this Agreement shall be subject to the NIKE, Inc. Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation as approved by the Board of Directors and the Committee and in effect on the date
of this Agreement.      12.  Miscellaneous .      12.1  Compliance with Law.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement
applicable to the Shares, the Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares issuable upon settlement of the RSUs prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of the shares under any local, state, federal or foreign
securities or exchange control law or under rulings or regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) or of any other governmental regulatory body, or prior to obtaining any approval or other clearance from any local,
state, federal or foreign governmental agency, which registration, qualification or approval the Company shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable. The Recipient understands that the Company is under no obligation to register or
qualify the Shares with the SEC or any state or foreign securities commission or to seek approval or clearance from any governmental authority for the issuance or sale of the Shares. Further, the Recipient agrees that the Company shall have
unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without the Recipient s consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of Shares.   
         7   

12.2  Amendments . The Company may at any time amend this Agreement to increase the
portion of the RSUs that are vested. Otherwise, this Agreement may not be amended without the written consent of the Recipient and the Company.      12.3  Electronic Delivery . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. The Recipient hereby
consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.   
  12.4  Severability . The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal
or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.      12.5
 Appendices A and B . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the grant of RSUs to Recipients outside the U.S. shall be subject to the special terms and conditions applicable to Recipients outside the U.S. set forth in Appendix A to
this Agreement and any country-specific terms and conditions for the Recipient s country set forth in Appendix B to this Agreement. If the Recipient relocates outside the U.S, and/or to one of the countries included in the Appendix B, the
special terms and conditions in Appendix A and Appendix B will apply to the Recipient, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons. The
Appendices A and B constitute part of this Agreement.      12.6  Imposition of Other Requirements . The Company reserves the
right to impose other requirements upon the Recipient s participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or
facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require the Recipient to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.      12.7  Complete Agreement . This Agreement, including the Appendix, constitutes the entire agreement between the Recipient and the Company, both oral and written concerning the matters addressed
herein, except with regard to the imposition of other requirements as described under Section 12.6 above, and all prior agreements or representations concerning the matters addressed herein, whether written or oral, express or implied, are
terminated and of no further effect.      12.8  Committee Determinations . The Recipient agrees to accept as binding,
conclusive and final all decisions and interpretations of the Committee or other administrator of the Plan as to the provisions of the Plan or this Agreement or any questions arising thereunder.   
  12.9  Notices . Any notice required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when
delivered personally to the party to whom it is addressed or when deposited into the United States Mail as registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the Company, Attention: Corporate Secretary, at its
principal executive offices or to the Recipient at the address of Recipient in the Company s   
         8   

records, or at such other address as such party may designate by ten (10) days  advance written notice to the other party.   
  12.10  Rights and Benefits . The rights and benefits of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the
Company s successors and assigns and, subject to the restrictions on transfer of this Agreement, be binding upon the Recipient s heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.   
  12.11  No Advice Regarding Grant . The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any
recommendations regarding the Recipient s participation in the Plan, or the Recipient s acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Class B Common Stock. The Recipient is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax,
legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.   
  12.12  Applicable Law; Attorneys  Fees . The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State
of Oregon. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in, the courts of Washington County, Oregon or the
United States District Court for the District of Oregon, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed. In the event either party institutes litigation hereunder, the prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys  fees to be
set by the trial court and, upon any appeal, the appellate court.      12.13  Waiver . The Recipient acknowledges that a
waiver by the Company of breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by the Recipient or any other Plan participant.   

9   

APPENDIX A        TO THE        1990 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   GLOBAL RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR NON-U.S. RECIPIENTS       This Appendix A
includes additional terms and conditions that govern RSUs for Recipients residing outside of the United States. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Appendix A but defined in the Agreement shall have the same definitions as in the
Agreement.      1. Nature of Grant. In accepting the RSUs, the Recipient understands, acknowledges and agrees that:   
  1.1 the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or
terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;      1.2 the grant of the RSUs is voluntary and
occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted in the past;      1.3 all decisions with respect to future RSUs or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;      1.4 the RSUs grant and the Recipient s participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or services contract with the Company or the
Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, the Employer or any parent or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as applicable, to terminate the Recipient s employment or service relationship (if any);   
  1.5 the Recipient is voluntarily participating in the Plan;      1.6 the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;      1.7 the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs, and the income and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including for purposes of calculating any severance,
resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments;      1.8 the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;   
         APP-1

1.9 no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the
RSUs resulting from the termination of the Recipient s employment or other service relationship (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Recipient is
employed or the terms of the Recipient s employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the RSUs to which the Recipient is otherwise not entitled, the Recipient irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against
the Company, any parent or subsidiary corporation, including the Employer, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company, any parent or subsidiary corporation and the Employer from any such claim; if,
notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Recipient shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all
documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;      1.10 the Recipient acknowledges and agrees that neither
the Company, the Employer nor any parent or subsidiary corporation of the Company shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Recipient s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the
RSUs or of any amounts due to the Recipient pursuant to the settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon settlement.          2.    Data Privacy . The Recipient hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Recipient s personal
data as described in this Agreement and any other RSU grant materials ( Data ) by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and any parent or subsidiary corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and
managing the Recipient s participation in the Plan.          The Recipient understands that the Company and the
Employer may hold certain personal information about the Recipient, including, but not limited to, the Recipient s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary,
nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Recipient s favor, for the exclusive purpose of
implementing, administering and managing the Plan.          The Recipient understands that Data will be transferred to
E*Trade Corporate Financial Services, Inc., or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The Recipient
understands that the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Recipient s country. The
Recipient understands that if he or she resides outside the United States, he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative. The Recipient
authorizes the Company, E*Trade Corporate Financial Services, Inc. and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain
and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the     
         APP-2

Plan. The Recipient understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Recipient s participation in the Plan. The Recipient understands
if he or she resides outside the United States, he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in
any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative. Further, the Recipient understands that he or she is providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If the Recipient does not consent, or if
the Recipient later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Recipient s consent is that
the Company would not be able to grant RSUs or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, the Recipient understands that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect the Recipient s ability to participate in
the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Recipient s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Recipient understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.     
  3.  Language . If the Recipient has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English
and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.   
         APP-3

APPENDIX B        TO THE        1990 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   GLOBAL RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        COUNTRY-SPECIFIC TERMS FOR NON-U.S. RECIPIENTS       This Appendix B includes
additional terms and conditions that govern RSUs for Recipients residing in the countries below. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Appendix B but defined in the Agreement shall have the same definitions as in the Agreement.
     This Appendix B also includes information regarding certain issues of which the Recipient should be aware with respect to
participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of May 2012. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. In addition, the information contained
herein is general in nature and may not apply to the Recipient s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure the Recipient of a particular result.   
  By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient agrees to comply with applicable exchange control laws associated with participation in the Plan.
The Recipient further acknowledges that if he or she has any questions regarding his or her responsibilities in this regard, the Recipient will seek advice from his or her personal legal advisor, at his or her own cost, and further agrees that
neither the Company, nor any parent or subsidiary corporation, including the Employer, will be liable for any fines or penalties resulting from Recipient s failure to comply with applicable laws concerning the acquisition and disposition of
Shares.      If the Recipient is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Recipient is currently
working, transfers employment after the RSUs are granted or is considered resident of another country for local law purposes, the terms and conditions contained herein may not be applicable to the Recipient, and the Company shall, in its discretion,
determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained herein shall apply to the Recipient.       ARGENTINA    
   Securities Law Information . Shares of the Company s Shares are not publicly offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina. The offer
is private and not subject to the supervision of any Argentine governmental authority.       Exchange Control Information . In the event that
the Recipient transfers proceeds in excess of US$2,000,000 from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan or Dividend Equivalent Payments into Argentina in a single month, the Recipient will be subject to certain exchange control laws. Please note
that exchange control regulations in Argentina are subject to frequent change. The Recipient should consult with his or her personal legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that the Recipient may have prior to receiving proceeds
from the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs or Dividend Equivalent Payments.   
         APP-4

Tax Reporting . If the Recipient holds Shares (acquired upon vesting of the RSUs or otherwise) as of
December 31, the Recipient is required to report certain information regarding the Shares on his or her annual tax return. Note that this reporting obligation is effective as of December 31, 2011.   
   AUSTRALIA        Securities
Law Information.  If the Recipient acquires Shares upon vesting of the RSUs and subsequently offers the Shares for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, such an offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law, and
the Recipient should obtain legal advice regarding any applicable disclosure requirements prior to making any such offer.   
   AUSTRIA        Consumer
Protection Information  .    To the extent that the provisions of the Austrian Consumer Protection Act are applicable to the Agreement and the RSUs, the Recipient may be entitled to revoke his or her acceptance of the Agreement if the
conditions listed below are met:       

(i)  
  The revocation must be made within one week after the Recipient accepts the Agreement.     

(ii)  
  The revocation must be in written form to be valid. It is sufficient if the Recipient returns the Agreement to the Company or the Company s representative with
language that can be understood as the Recipient s refusal to conclude or honor the Agreement, provided the revocation is sent within the period set forth above.         Exchange Control Information . If the Recipient holds Shares obtained through the Plan outside of Austria, the Employee must submit a report to the Austrian National Bank. An exemption applies if
the value of the Shares as of any given quarter does not exceed  30,000,000 or as of December 31 does not exceed  5,000,000. If the former threshold is exceeded, quarterly obligations are imposed, whereas if the latter threshold is
exceeded, annual reports must be given. The annual reporting date is as of December 31 and the deadline for filing the annual report is March 31 of the following year.      When Shares are sold, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash received is held outside Austria. If the transaction volume of all your accounts abroad exceeds  3,000,000, the movements
and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the fifteenth day of the following month.       BELGIUM        Reporting Information.  The Recipient is required to report any bank or
brokerage accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on his or her annual tax return.   
         APP-5

BRAZIL        Compliance with Law.  By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient acknowledges his or her agreement to comply with applicable Brazilian laws and to pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the
vesting of the RSUs, the receipt of any dividends or any Dividend Equivalent Payments, and the sale of Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs.   
   Exchange Control Information . If the Recipient is a resident or domiciled in Brazil, he or she will be required to submit an annual declaration of
assets and rights held outside of Brazil to the Central Bank of Brazil if the aggregate value of such assets and rights is equal to or greater than US$100,000. Assets and rights that must be reported include Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs.
      CANADA    
   Settlement of RSUs.  RSUs will be settled in Shares only, not cash.       Termination of Employment or Service . This provision supplements Section 2 of the Agreement.      In the event of involuntary termination of the Recipient s employment or service (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Recipient s right to receive and vest in the RSUs, if any,
will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date the Recipient receives notice of termination of employment or service from the Company or the Employer, or (2) the date the Recipient is no longer actively
employed by or in the service of the Company or his or her Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to, statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law);
the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Recipient no longer actively employed or in service for purposes of the RSU grant.      The following provisions will apply if the Recipient is a resident of Quebec:       French Language
Provision . The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up
in English.       Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig  la r daction en anglais de la convention, ainsi que de tous documents
ex cut s, avis donn s et proc dures judiciaries intent es, directement ou indirectement, relativement   ou suite   la pr sente convention.    
   Data Privacy.  This provision supplements Section 2 of Appendix A:      The Recipient hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the
administration and operation of the Plan. The Recipient further authorizes the Company, any parent or subsidiary corporation and the Committee to disclose and discuss the RSUs with their advisors. The Recipient further authorizes the Company and any
parent or subsidiary   
         APP-6

corporation to record such information and to keep such information in the Recipient s employee file.       CHINA        Settlement of Restricted Stock Units and Sale of Shares.  The following
provisions supplement Sections 2 and 3 of the Agreement and apply to PRC nationals and any other individuals who are subject to exchange control requirements in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion:   
  The Recipient agrees to maintain any Shares the Recipient obtains upon vesting in an account with the designated Plan broker prior to sale. Further, if
deemed necessary or advisable by the Company, the Recipient agrees to immediately sell all Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs or within such period upon termination of the Recipient s status as a service provider as determined by the
Company. The Recipient agrees that the Company is authorized to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on the Recipient s behalf pursuant to this authorization) and the Recipient expressly authorizes
the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such Shares. The Recipient agrees to sign any forms and/or consents required by the Company s broker to effectuate the sale of Shares. The Recipient acknowledges that the
Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price.      Upon the sale of the
Shares, the Company agrees to pay the Recipient the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items. The Recipient acknowledges that the Recipient is not
aware of any material nonpublic information with respect to the Company or any securities of the Company as of the date of the Agreement.   
   Exchange Control Requirements.  The following provisions will apply to PRC nationals and any other individuals who are subject to exchange control
requirements in China, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion:      The Recipient understands and agrees that, pursuant to local
exchange control requirements, the Recipient will be required to immediately repatriate the sale proceeds and any Dividend Equivalent Payments to China. The Recipient further understands that, under local law, such repatriation of his or her
proceeds may need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company, any parent or subsidiary corporation, or the Employer, and the Recipient hereby consents and agrees that any proceeds may be transferred to
such special account prior to being delivered to the Recipient.      Proceeds may be paid to the Recipient in U.S. dollars or local currency at
the Company s discretion. If the proceeds are paid to the Recipient in U.S. dollars, the Recipient will be required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited into this account. If the proceeds are paid
to the Recipient in local currency, the Company is under no obligation to secure any particular exchange conversion rate and the Company may face delays in converting the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions. The Recipient
further agrees to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed by the   
         APP-7

Company in the future in order to facilitate compliance with exchange control requirements in China.       CHILE        Securities Law Information.  Neither the Company nor the Shares subject to
the RSUs are registered with the Chilean Registry of Securities or under the control of the Chilean Superintendence of Securities.   
   Exchange Control Information.  The Recipient is not required to repatriate funds obtained from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any dividends
or Dividend Equivalent Payments. However, if the Recipient decides to repatriate such funds, the Recipient must do so through the Formal Exchange Market if the amount of the funds exceeds US$10,000. In such case, the Recipient must report the
payment to a commercial bank or registered foreign exchange office receiving the funds.      If the Recipient s aggregate investments held
outside of Chile exceeds US$5,000,000 (including the investments made under the Plan), the Recipient must report the investments annually to the Central Bank. Annex 3.1 of Chapter XII of the Foreign Exchange Regulations must be used to file this
report.      Please note that exchange control regulations in Chile are subject to change. The Recipient should consult with his or her personal
legal advisor regarding any exchange control obligations that the Recipient may have prior to exercising the RSUs or receiving proceeds from the sale of acquired upon vesting of the RSUs.       Annual Tax Reporting Obligation.  The Chilean Internal Revenue Service ( CIRS ) requires all taxpayers to provide information annually regarding: (i) the taxes paid abroad which they
will use as a credit against Chilean income taxes, and (ii) the results of foreign investments. These annual reporting obligations must be complied with by submitting a sworn statement setting forth this information before March 15 of each
year. The forms to be used to submit the sworn statement are Tax Form 1853  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Credits for Taxes Paid Abroad  and Tax Form 1851  Annual Sworn Statement Regarding Investments Held Abroad.  If the
Recipient is not a Chilean citizen and has been a resident in Chile for less than three years, the Recipient is exempt from the requirement to file Tax Form 1853. These statements must be submitted electronically through the CIRS website:
www.sii.cl.       CZECH REPUBLIC        Exchange Control Information.  Upon request of the Czech National Bank, the Recipient may need to file a notification within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter in which he or she acquires
Shares upon vesting of the RSUs. However, because exchange control regulations change frequently and without notice, the Recipient should consult with his or her personal legal advisor prior to the vesting of the RSUs and the sale of Common Stock to
ensure compliance with current regulations. It is the Recipient s responsibility to comply with any applicable Czech exchange control laws.   
         APP-8

DENMARK        Exchange Control and Tax Reporting Information.  The Recipient may hold Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs in a safety-deposit account ( e.g ., a brokerage account) either with a Danish
bank or with an approved foreign broker or bank. If the Shares are held with a foreign broker or bank, the Recipient is required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the safety-deposit account. For this purpose, he or she must file a Form V
( Erklaering V ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both the Recipient and the broker or bank must sign the Form V. By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information
to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the Shares in the account. By signing the Form V, the Recipient authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.      In addition, if the Recipient opens a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank), the brokerage account (or bank account, as applicable) will be treated as a deposit account because cash
can be held in the account. Therefore, the Recipient must also file a Form K ( Erklaering K ) with the Danish Tax Administration. Both the Recipient and the broker must sign the Form K. By signing the Form K, the broker undertakes an
obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the deposit account. By signing the Form K, the Recipient authorizes the Danish Tax Administration to examine the
account.       FINLAND       There are no country-specific provisions.       FRANCE    
   Language Consent.  By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient confirms having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan, the
French Plan (defined below), the Agreement and this Appendix) which were provided in English language. The Recipient accepts the terms of those documents accordingly.       En acceptant l attribution, le B n ficiaire confirme ainsi avoir re u lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan le Plan Fran ais
(d fini ci-dessous) et l Accord et cette Annexe)) qui ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. Le B n ficiaire accepte les termes en connaissance de cause.    
   Tax Information.  The RSUs are not intended to be French tax-qualified awards.       Exchange Control Information.  The Recipient may hold Shares obtained under the Plan outside of France provided that the Recipient declares all foreign accounts whether open, current, or closed on
his or her annual income tax return.       GERMANY        Exchange Control Information.  If the Recipient remits proceeds in excess of  12,500 out of or into Germany, such cross-border payment must be reported monthly to the German Central
  
         APP-9

Bank. The Recipient is responsible for satisfying the reporting obligation and should be able to obtain a copy of the form used for this purpose from the German bank used to carry out the
transfer.       GREECE       There are no country-specific provisions.       HONG KONG    
   Settlement of RSUs.  RSUs will be settled in Shares only, not cash.         Securities Law Information:   Warning: The RSUs and Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to
employees of the Company, or any parent or subsidiary corporation. The Plan, the Agreement, and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a  prospectus  for a
public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. Nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The RSUs is intended only for the personal use of each eligible employee of the
Employer, the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation and may not be distributed to any other person. The Recipient is advised to vesting caution in relation to the RSUs. If the Recipient is in any doubt about any of the contents of the
Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, the Recipient should obtain independent professional advice.        Sale Restriction.
 Notwithstanding anything contrary in the Agreement or the Plan, in the event the RSUs vests and Shares are issued to the Recipient or his or her heirs and representatives within six months of the Grant Date, the Recipient agrees that the
Recipient or his or her heirs and representatives will not dispose of any Shares acquired prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date.   
   Nature of Scheme .   The Company specifically intends that the Plan will not be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the
Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance.       HUNGARY       There are no country-specific provisions.       INDIA    
   Repatriation of Proceeds of Sale.  The Recipient agrees to repatriate all proceeds received from the sale of Shares or the receipt of any dividends
or Dividend Equivalent Payments to India within a reasonable time following the sale of the Shares ( i.e. , within 90 days). The Recipient must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency
is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or the Company requests proof of repatriation.   It is the Recipient s responsibility to comply with applicable exchange control laws in India.   
         APP-10

INDONESIA        Exchange Control Information.  If Recipient remits proceeds from the sale of Shares or dividends or Dividend Equivalent Payments into Indonesia, the Indonesian Bank through which the transaction is
made will submit a report on the transaction to the Bank of Indonesia for statistical reporting purposes. For transactions of US$10,000 or more, a description of the transaction must be included in the report. Although the bank through which the
transaction is made is required to make the report, you must complete a  Transfer Report Form.  The Transfer Report Form will be provided to you by the bank through which the transaction is made.   
   ISRAEL        Securities
Law Notification.  This offer of the RSUs does not constitute a public offering under the Securities Law, 1968.       Settlement of RSUs and
Sale of Shares.  The following provisions supplement sections 2 and 3 of the Agreement:      The Recipient agrees to maintain any Shares the
Recipient obtains upon vesting in an account with the designated Plan broker prior to sale. Further, the Recipient agrees to immediately sell all Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs. The Recipient agrees that the Company is authorized to instruct
its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on the Recipient s behalf pursuant to this authorization) and the Recipient expressly authorizes the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of such Shares.
The Recipient agrees to sign any forms and/or consents required by the Company s broker to effectuate the sale of Shares in case of termination of the Recipient s status as a service provider. The Recipient acknowledges that the
Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Furthermore, the Recipient acknowledges that the sale of Shares will be made as soon as administratively possible after vesting,
but the Company is not committing to sell the Shares at any particular time after vesting.      Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to
pay the Recipient the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items. The Recipient acknowledges that the Recipient is not aware of any material nonpublic
information with respect to the Company or any securities of the Company as of the date of the Agreement.       ITALY
       Data Privacy Notice.  This provision replaces Section 2 of Appendix A:   
    The Recipient understands that the Company and the Employer as a data processor of the Company may hold certain personal information about the
Recipient, including, but not limited to, the Recipient s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares of stock or directorships held in the
Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to Shares of stock awarded, canceled, vesting, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Recipient s favor, and that the Company and the Employer will
process said     
         APP-11

data and other data lawfully received from third parties (collectively,  Personal Data ) for the exclusive purpose of managing and administering the Plan and complying with applicable
laws, regulations and legislation. The Recipient also understands that providing the Company with Personal Data is mandatory for compliance with laws and is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that the Recipient s denial to provide
Personal Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect the Recipient s ability to participate in the Plan. The Recipient understands that Personal Data will not be publicized, but it may be
accessible by the Employer as a data processor of the Company and within the Employer s organization by its internal and external personnel in charge of processing. Furthermore, Personal Data may be transferred to banks, other financial
institutions or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. The Recipient understands that Personal Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company, and also to the
legitimate addressees under applicable laws. The Recipient further understands that the Company and any parent or subsidiary corporation will transfer Personal Data amongst themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementation, administration
and management of the Recipient s participation in the Plan, and that the Company and any parent or subsidiary corporation may each further transfer Personal Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Personal Data to a broker or other third party with whom the Recipient may elect to deposit any Shares acquired under the Plan or any proceeds from the sale of such Shares. Such recipients
may receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Personal Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Recipient s participation in the Plan. The Recipient understands that these recipients
may be acting as controllers, processors or persons in charge of processing, as the case may be, according to applicable privacy laws, and that they may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere,
including countries that do not provide an adequate level of data protection as intended under Italian privacy law.          Should the
Company vesting its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Personal Data as soon as it has accomplished all the necessary legal obligations connected with
the management and administration of the Plan.          The Recipient understands that Personal Data processing related to the purposes
specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Personal Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable
laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003.          The processing activity, including
communication, the transfer of Personal Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as specified herein and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require the Recipient s consent thereto as the processing is
necessary to performance of law and contractual obligations related to implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The Recipient understands that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, he or she has the
right at any moment to, including, but not limited to, obtain confirmation that Personal Data exists or     
         APP-12

not, access, verify its content, origin and accuracy, delete, update, integrate, correct, block or stop, for legitimate reason, the Personal Data processing. To vesting privacy rights the
Recipient should address the Data Controller as defined in the employee privacy policy. Furthermore, the Recipient is aware that Personal Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes. In addition, Personal Data provided can be reviewed and
questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting the Recipient s human resources department.         Plan Document
Acknowledgment.  By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement (including this Appendix) and has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully accepts all
provisions thereof. The Recipient further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves (a) the following provisions of the Agreement: Section 2: Vesting; Section 3: Delivery; Section 6:
Responsibility for Taxes; Section 11: Clawback Policy; Section 12: Miscellaneous; and (b) the following provisions of this Appendix: (i) Section 1: Nature of Grant; (ii) Section 3: Language; and (iii) all
provisions for Italy in this Appendix.       Exchange Control Information.  The Recipient is required to report the following on his or her
annual tax return: (1) any transfers of cash or Shares to or from Italy exceeding  10,000, (2) any foreign investments or investments held outside of Italy at the end of the calendar year exceeding  10,000 if such investments
(e.g., RSUs, Shares, or cash) may result in income taxable in Italy (this will include reporting any vested RSUs if their intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the fair market value of the Shares underlying the vested RSUs at the end of the
year and the purchase price) combined with other foreign assets exceed  10,000), and (3) the amount of the transfers to and from abroad which have had an impact during the calendar year on the Recipient s foreign investments or
investments held outside of Italy. Under certain circumstances, the Recipient may be exempt from the requirement under (1) above if the transfer or investment is made through an authorized broker resident in Italy.   
   KOREA        Exchange
Control Information.  If the Recipient realizes US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares or the receipt of Dividend Equivalent Payments, he or she must repatriate the proceeds to Korea within eighteen (18) months of the sale/receipt.
      MALAYSIA    
   Malaysian Insider Trading Notification.  The Recipient should be aware of the Malaysian insider-trading rules, which may impact his or her
acquisition or disposal of Shares or rights to Shares under the Plan. Under the Malaysian insider-trading rules, the Recipient is prohibited from selling Shares when he or she is in possession of information which is not generally available and
which he or she knows or should know will have a material effect on the price of Shares once such information is generally available.   
   Director Notification Obligation.  If the Recipient is a director of the Company s Malaysian subsidiary, he or she is subject to certain
notification requirements under the Malaysian Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Malaysian subsidiary in writing when the Recipient receives or disposes of an interest ( e.g. , RSUs, Shares) in the
  
         APP-13

Company or any related company. Such notifications must be made within 14 days of receiving or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company.   
   MEXICO        No
Entitlement or Claims for Compensation.  The following provision supplements Section 1 of Appendix A:      By accepting the RSUs, the
Recipient understands and agrees that any modification of the Plan or the Agreement or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of employment.       Policy Statement.  The invitation the Company is making under the Plan is unilateral and discretionary and, therefore, the Company reserves the absolute right to amend it and discontinue it at any
time without any liability.      The Company, with registered offices at One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton OR, 97005, U.S.A., is solely responsible
for the administration of the Plan and participation in the Plan and, in the Recipient s case, the acquisition of Shares does not, in any way, establish an employment relationship between the Recipient and the Company since the Recipient is
participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and the sole employer is NIKE de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Ontario 1107, Col. Providencia, C.P. 44630, Guadalajara, Mexico, CP 44620, nor does it establish any rights between the Recipient and the
Employer.       Plan Document Acknowledgment.  By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient acknowledges that he or she has received copies of the
Plan, has reviewed the Plan and the Agreement in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement.   
  In addition, by accepting the RSUs, the Recipient further acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the terms and
conditions in Section 1 of Appendix A, in which the following is clearly described and established: (i) participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right; (ii) the Plan and participation in the Plan is offered by the
Company on a wholly discretionary basis; (iii) participation in the Plan is voluntary; and (iv) the Company and any parent or subsidiary corporation are not responsible for any decrease in the value of the Shares underlying the RSUs.
     Finally, the Recipient hereby declares that he or she does do not reserve any action or right to bring any claim against the Company for any
compensation or damages as a result of participation in the Plan and therefore grants a full and broad release to the Employer and the Company and any parent or subsidiary corporation with respect to any claim that may arise under the Plan.
      Spanish Translation    
      Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral.    Estas disposiciones complementan el apartado 1 en el Ap ndice A :    
         APP-14

Por medio de la aceptaci n de las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas, quien tiene las Unidades de
Acciones Restringidas manifiesta que entiende y acuerda que cualquier modificaci n del Plan o su terminaci n no constituye un cambio o desmejora en los t rminos y condiciones de empleo.    
      Declaraci n de Pol tica.    La invitaci n por parte de la Compa  a bajo el Plan es unilateral y
discrecional y, por lo tanto, la Compa  a se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y discontinuar el mismo en cualquier momento, sin ninguna responsabilidad.        La Compa  a, con oficinas registradas ubicadas en One Bowerman Drive, Beaverton OR, 97005, EE.UU., es la  nica responsable por la administraci n del Plan y de la
participaci n en el mismo y, en el caso del que tiene las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas, la adquisici n de acciones no establece de forma alguna, una relaci n de trabajo entre el que tiene las Unidades de Acciones
Restringidas y la Compa  a, ya que la participaci n en el Plan por parte del que tiene la opci n es completamente comercial y el  nico patr n es NIKE de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Ontario 1107, Col. Providencia,
C.P. 44630, Guadalajara, Mexico, CP 44620, as  como tampoco establece ning n derecho entre el que tiene las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas y el patr n.           Reconocimiento del Plan de Documentos.    Por medio de la aceptaci n de las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas, el que tiene las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas reconoce que
ha recibido copias del Plan, que el mismo ha sido revisado al igual que la totalidad del Acuerdo y, que ha entendido y aceptado las disposiciones contenidas en el Plan y en el Acuerdo.        Adicionalmente, por medio de la aceptaci n de las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas, el que tiene la opci n reconoce que ha le do, y que aprueba espec fica y expresamente
los t rminos y condiciones contenidos en el apartado 1 Condiciones adicionales para todos los no-EE.UU. Recipients en el Ap ndice A, secci n en la cual se encuentra claramente descrito y establecido lo siguiente: (i) la
participaci n en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido; (ii) el Plan y la participaci n en el mismo es ofrecida por la Compa  a de forma enteramente discrecional; (iii) la participaci n en el Plan es
voluntaria; y (iv) la Compa  a, as  como su sociedad controlante, subsidiaria or filiales no son responsables por cualquier detrimento en el valor de las acciones en relaci n con las Unidades de Acciones
Restringidas.        Finalmente, por medio de la presente quien tiene las Unidades de Acciones Restringidas declara que no se reserva ninguna
acci n o derecho para interponer una demanda en contra de la Compa  a por compensaci n, da o o perjuicio alguno como resultado de la participaci n en el Plan y en consecuencia, otorga el m s amplio
finiquito a su patr n, as  como a la Compa  a, a su sociedad controlante, subsidiaria or filiales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera originarse en virtud del Plan.    
   NETHERLANDS        Labor
Law Acknowledgment.  By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient acknowledges that: (i) the RSUs are intended as an incentive for the Recipient to remain employed with the Employer and is not intended as remuneration for labor performed; and
(ii) the RSUs is not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation.       Securities Law Information.  The Recipient should be
aware of the Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs. In particular, the   
         APP-15

Recipient may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions if he or she has inside information about the Company.      Under Article 5:56 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, anyone who has  insider information  related to an issuing company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or
from the Netherlands.  Inside information  is defined as knowledge of specific information concerning the issuing company to which the securities relate or the trade in securities issued by such company, which has not been made public and
which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the development of the price. The insider could be any employee of the Company or a subsidiary in the Netherlands who has inside information as described
herein.      Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, a Recipient working at a parent or subsidiary corporation of the
Company in the Netherlands may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when he or she has such inside information.   
   If the Recipient is uncertain whether the insider-trading rules apply to him or her, then the Recipient should consult with his or her personal legal
advisor.        NEW ZEALAND       There are no country-specific provisions.       NORWAY    
  There are no country-specific provisions.       PHILIPPINES        Securities Law Notice.  Recipient acknowledge that he or she is
permitted to sell Shares acquired under the Plan through the designated Plan broker appointed by the Company (or such other broker to whom the Recipient may transfer the Shares), provided that such sale takes place outside of the Philippines through
the facilities of New York Stock Exchange on which the Shares are listed.       POLAND    
   Exchange Control Information.  If the Recipient holds foreign securities (including Shares) and maintains accounts abroad, the Recipient may be
required to file certain reports with the National Bank of Poland. Specifically, if the value of securities and cash held in such foreign accounts exceeds PLN 7 million, the Recipient must file reports on the transactions and balances of the
accounts on a quarterly basis. Further, any fund transfers into or out of Poland in excess of  15,000 must be effected through a bank in Poland. Polish residents are required to store all documents related to foreign exchange transactions for a
period of five years.   
         APP-16

PORTUGAL        Exchange Control Information.  If the Recipient holds Shares upon vesting of the RSUs, the acquisition of Shares should be reported to the Banco de Portugal for statistical purposes. If the Shares
are deposited with a commercial bank or financial intermediary in Portugal, such bank or financial intermediary will submit the report on the Recipient s behalf. If the Shares are not deposited with a commercial bank or financial intermediary
in Portugal, the Recipient is responsible for submitting the report to the Banco de Portugal.       Language Consent.  The Recipient hereby
expressly declares that he or she has full knowledge of the English language and has read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions established in the Plan and the Agreement.   
   O Contratado, pelo presente instrumento, declara expressamente que tem pleno conhecimento da l ngua inglesa e que leu, compreendeu e livremente
aceitou e concordou com os termos e condi  es estabelecidas no Plano e no Acordo de Atribui  o (Agreement em ingl s) .       RUSSIA        U.S. Transaction.  The Recipient understands that the RSUs shall be valid
and this Agreement shall be concluded and become effective only when the Agreement is electronically received by the Company in the United States. Upon vesting of the RSUs, any Shares to be issued to the Recipient shall be delivered to the Recipient
through a bank or brokerage account in the United States. The Recipient is not permitted to sell the Shares directly to other Russian legal entities or individuals.       Securities Law Notice.  The Appendices, the Agreement, the Plan and all other materials that the Recipient may receive regarding participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an
offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of securities pursuant to the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; hence, the securities described in any Plan-related documents may not be used for offering or public circulation in
Russia.      Please note that, under the Russian law, the Recipient is not permitted to sell the Company s Shares directly to other Russian
individuals and the Recipient is not permitted to bring share certificates into Russia. All Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs will be maintained on the Recipient s behalf in the United States.   
   Exchange Control Information.  Under current exchange control regulations, within a reasonably short time after sale of the Shares acquired upon
vesting of the RSUs or the receipt of dividends or Dividend Equivalent Payments, the Recipient must repatriate the proceeds to Russia. Such proceeds must be initially credited to the Recipient through a foreign currency account at an authorized bank
in Russia. After the proceeds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to foreign banks in accordance with Russian exchange control laws. The Recipient is encouraged to contact his or her personal advisor before remitting the
Recipient s proceeds to Russia as exchange control requirements may change.   
         APP-17

SINGAPORE        Securities Law Notification  .      The RSUs were granted to the Recipient pursuant to the  Qualifying Person  exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the Singapore Securities
and Futures Act (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.) ( SFA ). The Company has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. The Recipient should note that his or her RSUs are subject to section 257 of the SFA
and the Recipient will not be able to make any subsequent sale in Singapore, or any offer of such subsequent sale of the Shares underlying the RSUs unless such sale or offer in Singapore is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division
(1) Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the SFA (Cap 289, 2006 Ed.).       Director Notification Obligation.  If the
Recipient is a director, associate director or shadow director of a Singapore subsidiary of the Company, the Recipient is subject to certain notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Among these requirements is an obligation to
notify the Singaporean subsidiary in writing when the Recipient receives an interest ( e.g ., RSUs, Shares) in the Company or any related companies. In addition, the Recipient must notify the Singapore subsidiary when the Recipient sells Shares
of the Company or any related company (including when the Recipient sells Shares acquired under the Plan). These notifications must be made within two business days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company or any related company. In
addition, a notification must be made of the Recipient s interests in the Company or any related company within two business days of becoming a director.       Prohibition Against Insider Trading.  The Recipient should be aware of the Singaporean insider-trading rules, which may impact the Recipient s acquisition or disposal of Shares or rights to
Shares. Under the Singaporean insider-trading rules, the Recipient is prohibited from acquiring or selling Shares or rights to Shares (e.g., RSUs under the Plan) when the Recipient is in possession of information which is not generally available and
which the Recipient knows or should know will have a material effect on the price of Shares once such information is generally available.       SOUTH AFRICA        Responsibility for Taxes.  The following provision supplements
Section 6 of the Agreement:      By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient agrees that, immediately upon vesting of the RSUs, he or she will
notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized. If the Recipient fails to advise the Employer of the gain realized upon vesting, he or she may be liable for a fine. The Recipient will be solely responsible for paying any difference between
the actual tax liability and the amount withheld.       Exchange Control Information.  The Recipient should consult his or her personal
advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control regulations in South Africa; as such regulations are subject to frequent change. The Recipient is responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in South Africa.
      SPAIN    
   Labor Law Acknowledgment.  In accepting the RSUs, the Recipient consents to participate in
  
         APP-18

the Plan and acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan.      The Recipient
understands that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant stock RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or a parent or subsidiary corporation throughout the world. The decision is
a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Company, the Employer, or any parent or subsidiary corporation. Consequently, the Recipient understands that
the RSUs is granted on the assumption and condition that the RSUs and any Shares acquired upon vesting of the RSUs are not part of any employment contract (either with the Company, the Employer, or any parent or subsidiary corporation) and shall not
be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, the Recipient understands and freely accepts that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise
from any gratuitous and discretionary grant since the future value of the RSUs and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, the Recipient understands that the RSUs would not be granted to the Recipient but for the assumptions
and conditions referred to herein; thus, the Recipient acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then the grant of this RSUs shall be null and
void.      The RSUs are a conditional right to Shares and can be forfeited in the case of, or affected by, the Recipient s termination of
service or employment. This will be the case, for example, even if (1) the Recipient is considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause; (2) the Recipient is dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective
dismissal; (3) the Recipient terminates employment or service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or contractual condition; (4) the Recipient terminates employment or service due to unilateral breach of
contract of the Company, the Employer, or any parent or subsidiary corporation; or (5) the Recipient s employment or service terminates for any other reason whatsoever, except for reasons specified the Agreement. Consequently, upon
termination of the Recipient s employment or service for any of the reasons set forth above, the Recipient may automatically lose any rights to the unvested RSUs granted to him or her as of the date of the Recipient s termination of
employment, as described in the Plan and the Agreement.       Exchange Control Information.  The Recipient must declare the acquisition of
Shares to the  Direcci n General de Politica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras  (the  DGPCIE ) of the  Ministerio de Economia  for statistical purposes. The Recipient must also declare ownership of any Shares with the
Directorate of Foreign Transactions each January while the Shares are owned. In addition, if the Recipient wishes to import the ownership title of any Shares ( i.e.,  share certificates) into Spain, he or she must declare the importation of
such securities to the DGPCIE.      When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares ( i.e. , cash dividends,
Dividend Equivalent Payment or sale proceeds), the Recipient must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. The Recipient will need to provide the financial institution with the following
information: (i) the Recipient s name, address and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment; (iv) the currency used; (v) the country of
  
         APP-19

origin; (vi) the reasons for the payment; and (vii) additional information that may be required.       Securities Law Information.  The grant of RSUs and the Shares issued pursuant to the vesting of the RSUs are considered a private placement outside of the scope of Spanish laws on public offerings
and issuances of securities.       SWEDEN        Tax Reporting Information.  When the Recipient vestings the RSUs, the employer is required to report and withhold preliminary income tax on the income at vesting. However, it is the Recipient s
obligation to inform the employer, no later than the month after vesting, that the Recipient has vesting the RSUs and to disclose the taxable amount.       SWITZERLAND        Securities Law Information.  The grant of the RSUs is considered a
private offering in Switzerland and is, therefore, not subject to registration in Switzerland.       TAIWAN    
   Exchange Control Information.  The Recipient may acquire foreign currency (including proceeds from the sale of Shares and the receipt of any
dividends or Dividend Equivalent Payments) into Taiwan up to US$5,000,000 per year. If the transaction amount is TWD500,000 or more in a single transaction, the Recipient must submit a foreign exchange transaction form and also provide supporting
documentation to the satisfaction of the handling bank.      If the transaction amount is US$500,000 or more, the Recipient may be required to
provide additional supporting documentation to the satisfaction of the bank. The Recipient should consult his or her personal advisor to ensure compliance with applicable exchange control laws in Taiwan.   
   THAILAND        Exchange
Control Information.  When the Recipient sells Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs or receives Dividend Equivalent Payments, the Recipient must repatriate all cash proceeds to Thailand and then convert such proceeds to Thai Baht within 360
days of repatriation. If the amount of the Recipient s proceeds is US$50,000 or more, the Recipient must specifically report the inward remittance to the Bank of Thailand on a foreign exchange transaction form. If the Recipient fails to comply
with these obligations, the Recipient may be subject to penalties assessed by the Bank of Thailand.      The Recipient should consult his or her
personal advisor prior to taking any action with respect to remittance of proceeds from the sale of Shares into Thailand. The Recipient is responsible for ensuring compliance with all exchange control laws in Thailand.   
   TURKEY       There are no
country-specific provisions.   
         APP-20

UNITED KINGDOM        Settlement of RSUs.  RSUs will be settled in Shares only, not cash.       Tax
Obligations.  The following provisions supplement Section 6 of the Agreement:      The Recipient agrees that, if Recipient does not pay or
the Employer or the Company does not withhold from the Recipient the full amount of income tax that the Recipient owes at vesting of the RSUs or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the RSUs (the  Taxable Event ) within 90
days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by the Recipient to the Employer,
effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. The Recipient agrees that the loan will bear interest at the HMRC s official rate and will be immediately due and repayable by the Recipient, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any
time thereafter by withholding by any of the means set forth in the Agreement. The Recipient also authorizes the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares unless and until the loan is repaid in full.   
  If the Recipient is an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended), the Recipient is not eligible for such a loan and the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply to the Recipient. In the event that the Recipient is an officer or director, as defined above, and income tax is not
collected from or paid by the Recipient by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax may constitute a benefit to the Recipient on which additional income tax and National Insurance Contributions (NICs) may be payable. The Recipient will
be responsible for reporting any income tax and NICs due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime.       URUGUAY       There are no country-specific provisions.   
   VIETNAM        Settlement
of RSUs and Sale of Shares.  The following provision supplements Sections 2 and 3 of the Agreement:      The Recipient agrees to maintain any
Shares the Recipient obtains upon vesting in an account with the designated Plan broker prior to sale. Further, the Recipient agrees to immediately sell all Shares issued upon vesting of the RSUs. The Recipient agrees that the Company is authorized
to instruct its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such Shares (on the Recipient s behalf pursuant to this authorization) and the Recipient expressly authorizes the Company s designated broker to complete the sale of
such Shares. The Recipient agrees to sign any forms and/or consents required by the Company s broker to effectuate the sale of Shares in case of termination of the Recipient s status as a service provider. The Recipient acknowledges that
the Company s designated broker is under no obligation to arrange for the sale of the Shares at any particular price. Furthermore, the Recipient acknowledges that the sale of Shares will be
  
         APP-21

made as soon as administratively possible after vesting, but the Company is not committing to sell the Shares at any particular time after vesting.   
  Upon the sale of the Shares, the Company agrees to pay the Recipient the cash proceeds from the sale of the Shares, less any brokerage fees or
commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy Tax-Related Items. The Recipient acknowledges that the Recipient is not aware of any material nonpublic information with respect to the Company or any securities of the Company as of the date of
the Agreement.       Exchange Control Information.  All cash proceeds received in relation to the RSUs must be immediately repatriated to
Vietnam. Such repatriation of proceeds may need to be effectuated through a special exchange control account established by the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation, including the Employer. By accepting the RSUs, the Recipient consents
and agrees that the cash proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to the Recipient.   
         APP-22

</EX-10.18>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 d341264dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

EXHIBIT 12.1   
     
   NIKE, Inc. Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges      

(1)   
   Interest expense includes interest both expensed and capitalized.          

(2)   
   Interest component of leases includes one-tenth of rental expense which approximates the interest component of operating leases.      

(3)   
   Earnings before income taxes and fixed charges are exclusive of capitalized interest.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21>
 6
 d341264dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21   
     
   Subsidiaries of the Registrant          

Entity Name   
     
   Jurisdiction of Formation   

Air Max Limited  

Bermuda  

All Star C.V.  

Netherlands  

American NIKE S.L.  

Spain  

BRS NIKE Taiwan, Inc.  

Taiwan  

Cole Haan  

Maine  

Cole Haan Company Store  

Maine  

Cole Haan Hong Kong Limited  

Hong Kong  

Cole Haan Japan, Inc.  

Japan  

Converse (Asia Pacific) Limited  

Hong Kong  

Converse Canada Corp.  

Canada  

Converse Canada Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

Converse Europe Limited  

United Kingdom  

Converse Footwear Technical Service (Zhongshan) Co., Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

Converse Holdings LLC  

Delaware  

Converse Hong Kong Holding Company Limited  

Hong Kong  

Converse Hong Kong Limited  

Hong Kong  

Converse Inc.  

Delaware  

Converse Netherlands B.V.  

Netherlands  

Converse Sporting Goods (China) Co., Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

Converse Trading Company B.V.  

Netherlands  

Exeter Brands Group LLC  

Oregon  

Futbol Club Barcelona, S.L.  

Spain  

Hurley 999, S.L.  

Spain  

Hurley Australia Pty Ltd  

Australia  

Hurley International Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

Hurley International LLC  

Oregon  

Juventus Merchandising S.r.l.  

Italy  

LATAM Servicos de Licenciamento Esportivo Ltda.  

Brazil  

Manchester United Merchandising Limited  

United Kingdom  

NIKE 360 Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Argentina Srl  

Argentina  

NIKE Asia Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Australia Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Australia Pty. Ltd.  

Australia  

NIKE BH B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE CA LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE Canada Corp.  

Canada  

NIKE Canada Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Chile B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE China Holding HK Limited  

Hong Kong  

NIKE Commercial (China) Co., Ltd.  

China  

NIKE Cortez  

Bermuda  

NIKE CR d.o.o  

Croatia  

NIKE Czech s.r.o.  

Czech Republic  

NIKE de Chile Ltda.  

Chile  

NIKE de Mexico S de R.L. de C.V.  

Mexico  

NIKE Denmark ApS  

Denmark  

NIKE Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

NIKE do Brasil Comercio e Participacoes Ltda.  

Brazil  

NIKE Dunk Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Europe Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE European Operations Netherlands B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Finance Ltd.  

Bermuda  

NIKE Finland OY  

Finland  

NIKE Flight  

Bermuda  

NIKE France S.A.S.  

France  

NIKE Galaxy Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Global Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Global Services PTE. LTD.  

Singapore  

Entity Name   
     
   Jurisdiction of Formation   

NIKE Global Trading PTE. LTD.  

Singapore  

NIKE GmbH.  

Austria  

NIKE Group Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Hellas EPE  

Greece  

NIKE Holding, LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE Hong Kong Limited  

Hong Kong  

NIKE Huarache  

Bermuda  

NIKE Hungary LLC  

Hungary  

NIKE Ignite, LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE -IHM, Inc.  

Missouri  

NIKE India Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE India Private Limited  

India  

NIKE International Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE International Holding, Inc.  

Delaware  

NIKE International LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE International Ltd.  

Bermuda  

NIKE Israel Ltd.  

Israel  

NIKE Italy S.R.L.  

Italy  

NIKE Japan Corp.  

Japan  

NIKE Japan Group LLC  

Japan  

NIKE Jump Ltd.  

Bermuda  

NIKE Korea LLC  

Korea  

NIKE Laser Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Lavadome  

Bermuda  

NIKE Licenciamentos do Brasil, Ltda.  

Brazil  

NIKE Logistics Yugen Kaisha  

Japan  

NIKE Max LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE Mexico Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE New Zealand Company  

New Zealand  

NIKE Norway AS  

Norway  

NIKE NZ Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Offshore Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Pegasus  

Bermuda  

NIKE Philippines, Inc.  

Philippines  

NIKE Poland Sp.zo.o  

Poland  

NIKE Retail B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Retail Hellas Ltd.  

Greece  

NIKE Retail LLC  

Russia  

NIKE Retail Poland sp. z o. o.  

Poland  

NIKE Retail Services, Inc.  

Oregon  

NIKE Retail Turkey  

Turkey  

NIKE Russia LLC  

Russia  

NIKE SALES (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD.  

Malaysia  

NIKE Servicios de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V.  

Mexico  

NIKE SINGAPORE PTE LTD  

Singapore  

NIKE Slovakia s.r.o.  

Slovakia  

NIKE Sourcing India Private Limited  

India  

NIKE Sourcing (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd.  

China  

NIKE South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  

South Africa  

NIKE South Africa Holdings LLC  

Delaware  

NIKE Sphere C.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Sports (China) Company, Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

NIKE Sports Korea Co., Ltd.  

South Korea  

NIKE Suzhou Holding HK Limited  

Hong Kong  

NIKE (Suzhou) Sports Company, Ltd.  

People s Republic of China  

NIKE Sweden AB  

Sweden  

NIKE (Switzerland) GmbH  

Switzerland  

NIKE Tailwind  

Bermuda  

NIKE Taiwan Limited  

NIKE (Thailand) Limited  

Thailand  

NIKE TN, Inc.  

Oregon  

NIKE Trading Company B.V.  

Netherlands  

Entity Name   
     
   Jurisdiction of Formation   

NIKE UK Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

NIKE (UK) Limited  

United Kingdom  

NIKE USA, Inc.  

Oregon  

NIKE Vapor Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

NIKE Victory Cooperatief U.A.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Vietnam Limited Liability Company  

Vietnam  

NIKE Vision, Timing and Techlab, LP  

Texas  

NIKE Vomero Cooperatief U.A.  

Netherlands  

NIKE Waffle  

Bermuda  

NIKE Wholesale LLC  

Slovenia  

NIKE Zoom LLC  

Delaware  

PT Hurley Indonesia  

Indonesia  

PT NIKE Indonesia  

Indonesia  

Savier, Inc.  

Oregon  

Triax Insurance, Inc.  

Hawaii  

Twin Dragons Global Limited  

Hong Kong  

Twin Dragons Holding B.V.  

Netherlands  

Umbro Asia Sourcing Limited  

Hong Kong  

Umbro Corp.  

Delaware  

Umbro Finance Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro Hong Kong Limited  

Hong Kong  

Umbro International Holdings Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro International JV  

Delaware  

Umbro International Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro JV Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro Licensing Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

Umbro Schweiz Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro Sportwear Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro Worldwide Limited  

United Kingdom  

Umbro.com  

United Kingdom  

Yugen Kaisha Hurley Japan  

Japan  

</EX-21>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d341264dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1        Certification of Chief Executive Officer        Pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       I, Mark G. Parker, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NIKE, Inc.;      2. Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   
  b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: July 24, 2012        

/s/ Mark G. Parker    

Mark G. Parker    
 
   Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d341264dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2        Certification of Chief Financial Officer        Pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       I, Donald W. Blair, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NIKE, Inc.;      2. Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   
  b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: July 24, 2012        

/s/ Donald W. Blair    

Donald W. Blair    
 
   Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 d341264dex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Section 1350 Certifications 

Exhibit 32       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the following certifications are being made to accompany the Registrant s annual report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012.      Certification of Chief Executive Officer   
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of NIKE, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies, to such officer s knowledge, that:   
  (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012 (the  Report ) fully complies with
the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and      (ii) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   
  Dated: July 24, 2012        

/s/ Mark G. Parker    
 
    Mark G. Parker    
 
    Chief Executive Officer    

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as created by Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the following certifications are being made to accompany the Registrant s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012.      Certification of Chief Financial Officer       
  Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of
NIKE, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies, to such officer s knowledge, that:      (i) the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
     (ii) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.      Dated: July 24, 2012   

/s/ Donald W. Blair    
 
    Donald W. Blair     Chief
Financial Officer    

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 nke-20120531.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 nke-20120531.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 nke-20120531_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 nke-20120531_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 nke-20120531_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 nke-20120531_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

