<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120327_10-K_edgar_data_104169_0001193125-12-134679_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>11592603</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>293334</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2623004</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2381991</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3485781</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2456362</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>85</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-134679.hdr.sgml : 20120327
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120327172222
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-134679
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20120131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120327
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120327

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WAL MART STORES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000104169
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-VARIETY STORES [5331]
		IRS NUMBER:				710415188
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06991
		FILM NUMBER:		12718009

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		702 SOUTHWEST 8TH ST
		CITY:			BENTONVILLE
		STATE:			AR
		ZIP:			72716
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5012734000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		702 SOUTHWEST 8TH STREET
		CITY:			BENTONVILLE
		STATE:			AR
		ZIP:			72716

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-134679.txt : 20120327

10-K
 1
 d270972d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K

for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012,   
   or       
 
  Commission file number 1-6991.        

WAL-MART STORES, INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)         
        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (479) 273-4000    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which
registered     

Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   
            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.    Yes         No           Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  accelerated filer,  large accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.       

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer        

Non-accelerated filer       
      
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes     No          As of
July 29, 2011, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 29, 2011, was
$91,704,538,525. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of the registrant s
outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.      The registrant had 3,404,538,468 shares of common stock outstanding as of
March 22, 2012.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    

Document    
      
     Parts Into Which Incorporated     

Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012 (the  Annual Report to Shareholders ) included as an
exhibit to this Form 10-K  
      
  Parts I and II   

Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 1, 2012 (the  Proxy Statement )  
      
  Part III   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION     
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its
subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as  we,   Walmart  or the  Company ) has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act.
     The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by
reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited
to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including our sales, the sales of one or more of our operating segments, our earnings per share for certain periods, and our comparable store sales or comparable club sales of one of our
operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period, the amount, nature and allocation of future capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units
in the other countries in which we operate, the consummation of the acquisition of assets or operations, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion
and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our business plans, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the
anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in
expected sales of certain categories of products, our ability to leverage best practices, lessons from multiple formats and global sourcing practices, our liquidity and ability to access the capital markets, the effect of economic developments on
our customers, our operations and our results of operations, our effective annual tax rate, and other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of
words or phrases such as  anticipate,   believe,   could occur,   could result,   continue,   estimate,   expect,   forecast,   guidance,   plan, 
 projected,   will be,   will continue,   will change,   will decrease,   will have,   will increase,  and  will remain,  or words or other phrases commencing with the
word  will,  or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results.      Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and internationally, which are outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and
uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales or comparable club sales and effective tax rate for any period, business operations,
business strategy, plans, goals or objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the economy of the United States or other specific markets in which we operate, economic instability,
changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, economic crises and disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt
crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment and partial employment levels, employment conditions within our markets, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence, consumer credit
availability, consumer spending patterns, consumer debt levels, inflation, deflation, commodity prices, the cost of the goods we sell, competitive pressures, the seasonality of our business, seasonal buying patterns in the United States and our
other markets, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the selling prices of fuel, the cost of healthcare and other benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs,
information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, availability of qualified labor pools in the specific markets in which we operate, zoning, land use
and other regulatory restrictions, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather conditions and events, catastrophic events and natural disasters, as well as storm and other damage to our stores, clubs, distribution centers and other
facilities and store closings and other limitations on customer access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events and disasters, disruption in our supply chain, including availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign
suppliers, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, including changes in corporate tax rates, costs of compliance with laws and
regulations, the resolution of tax matters, developments in and the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are a party or are subject, currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility, fluctuations in market rates of interest, and
other conditions and events affecting domestic and global financial and capital markets, public health emergencies, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and disturbances and terrorist attacks.  
  Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many
factors.      The foregoing list of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance is not exclusive. Other factors and
unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss
below under the caption  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and
  
         2   

appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the
SEC. Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are
based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the
other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently,
this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments
expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we
expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances
except to the extent required by applicable law.   
         3   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K        FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2012         PART I   

ITEM 1.    
    BUSINESS           General
      Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart,  the  Company  or  we ) operates retail stores in various formats around
the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ( EDLP ) while fostering a
culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price everyday so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.
Our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for our United States ( U.S. ) and Canadian operations and December 31 for all other operations. During the fiscal year ended
January 31, 2012, we generated net sales of approximately $443.9 billion.      Currently, our operations comprise three reportable
business segments: the Walmart U.S. segment; the Walmart International segment; and the Sam s Club segment.      Our Walmart U.S. segment is
the largest segment of our business, accounting for approximately 60% of our fiscal 2012 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as Walmart s online retail operations,
walmart.com.      Our Walmart International segment consists of retail operations in 26 countries. This segment generated approximately 28% of our
fiscal 2012 net sales. The Walmart International segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, Sam s Clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the U.S.      Our Sam s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs operated in 47 states in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as the segment s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam s Club
accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2012 net sales.      We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas
72716, USA.       The Development of Our Company       Although Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas.
In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders  business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a
discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam s Clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.   
  In fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with
Cifra S.A. de C.V. ( Cifra ). In 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued
to expand. At January 31, 2012, our Walmart International segment conducted retail business in 26 countries.       Our Business Segments
      The Company is engaged in the operation of: retail stores located throughout the United States; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in
Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan and the United Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Chile, Mexico, 12 countries in Africa, and 5 countries in Central America; and its joint ventures in India and China and other controlled subsidiaries
in China. The Company defines its segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.   
  The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company s mass merchant concept under the  Walmart  or  Wal-Mart  brand, as well as
walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company s operations outside of the U.S. The Sam s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the U.S., as well as samsclub.com.   
  The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment s operating income, which we calculate by including
certain corporate overhead allocations. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM. When we do so,
the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.   
         4   

Walmart U.S. Segment       The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $264.2 billion, $260.3 billion and $259.9 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter,
discount store, Neighborhood Market or other small store format location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.   
    General.   As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico,
with supercenters in 48 states and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats in 18 states and Puerto Rico. Supercenters range in size from 78,000 square feet to 260,000 square
feet, with an average size of approximately 182,000 square feet. Our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets and other small
formats range in size from 3,000 square feet to 64,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 38,000 square feet. From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. Customers can also purchase
a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at  www.walmart.com .       WALMART U.S. SEGMENT    
   UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET   (1)            

(1)      
     Total  and  Square Feet  columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.

(2)      
    Includes conversions of discount stores to supercenters.      

(3)      
    Total opened, net of conversions of discount stores to supercenters.           Merchandise.   Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other
small store formats. The percentage of net sales calculated below reflects sales of our brick and mortar stores, as well as sales of our online business.       

(1)  
  Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry
grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;         

(2)  
  Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and
books;         

(3)  
  Hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise;     

(4)  
  Health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services;         

(5)  
  Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and     

(6)  
  Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d cor, outdoor living and horticulture.     
         5   

The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, wire
transfers, check cashing and bill payment. These services total less than 1% of annual sales.      Nationally advertised merchandise represents a
significant portion of the merchandise sold in the Walmart U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including:  Canopy,   Equate,   Everstart,   Faded Glory, 
 George,   Great Value,   Hometrends,   Mainstays,   Marketside,   No Boundaries,   Ol  Roy,   Ozark Trail,   Parent s Choice,   Prima
Della,   Puritan,   Spring Valley  and  White Stag.  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include:  Better Homes   Gardens,   Danskin Now, 
 Disney,   General Electric,   Just My Size,   OP,   Rival  and  Starter.       The
percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended:   
   
    Periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When
revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period s presentation to maintain comparability.        Operations.   Hours of
operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets and other small store formats
vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card
issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers  health benefit plans.   
    Seasonal Aspects of Operations.   The Walmart U.S. segment s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events,
national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest
sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.        Competition.   The Walmart U.S.
segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog
businesses. We also compete with other retailers for new store sites.      Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations
and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:

EDLP   our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust
that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;          

Rollbacks   our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;      

Save Even More   a strategy to meet or be below a competitor s advertised price;      

Store of the Community   a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in
which that store is located; and          

Clean, Fast and Friendly   our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment.
     
         6   

We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our
customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.   
    Distribution.   During fiscal 2012, approximately 80% of the Walmart U.S. segment s purchases of merchandise were shipped to the stores
through our distribution centers, which are located strategically throughout the United States. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our
private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.      Our
Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 133 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2012, located strategically throughout the U.S. Of these 133 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. We owned and a third party operated
one distribution facility and third parties owned and operated the remaining 27 distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam s Club segment for certain
items.       Walmart International Segment       The Walmart International segment s net sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, were $125.9 billion, $109.2 billion and $97.4 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit
accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.        General.   Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Chile, Mexico, 12 countries in Africa and 5 countries in Central America; our joint ventures in
China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. Walmart International operates units under approximately 70 banners in numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, websites, warehouse clubs,
restaurants, and apparel stores. Also, on a limited basis, our Walmart International segment operates banks that provide consumer lending.       WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT        UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL
SQUARE FEET   (1)        

(2)  
  All periods include the Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. The information for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and the
balance forward in the table excludes 23 Seiyu units closed in fiscal 2010.     
         7   

Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 70 banners, represented
in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. Generally, retail centers range in size from 8,900 square feet to 110,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. Other,
including restaurants in Chile, Japan and Mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 4,200 square feet. Unit
counts   (1)       for Walmart International are as follows:        

(1)  
  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2011 to correspond with the country s balance sheet date.

(2)  
  Africa includes Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.     

(3)  
  Central America includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua.          Merchandise.   The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise
offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise.        Operations.   The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national
ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers, and in Canada, Chile and Mexico, credit cards issued by
our subsidiaries. Limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and
global sourcing practices.        Seasonal Aspects of Operations.   The Walmart International segment s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Historically, the segment s highest sales volume and operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending January 31 and the segment s lowest sales volume and operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending
April 30. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.        Competition.   The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty
stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. We also operate restaurant chains and consumer finance operations. Our ability to offer our
customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates. EDLP is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets, including
high-growth or emerging markets. We are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to EDLP. Our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment s competitive position in the markets
where we operate.   
         8   

Distribution.   We utilize a total of 158 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including one export consolidation facility in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic
products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2012, approximately 75% of the Walmart International segment s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart
International segment s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 158 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 39, we owned and third parties operated 9 and we leased and operated 68. Third
parties leased and operated the remaining 42 distribution facilities.       Sam s Club Segment    
  The Sam s Club segment had net sales of $53.8 billion, $49.5 billion and $47.8 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the most
recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.        General.   As a membership
club warehouse, facility sizes for Sam s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. Sam s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise
and services online at  www.samsclub.com .       SAM S CLUB SEGMENT    
   CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET   (1)         

(1)  
   Total  and  Square Feet  columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
         Merchandise.   Sam s Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected
private-label items such as  Member s Mark  and three new proprietary brands,  Artisan Fresh,   Daily Chef  and  Simply Right,  in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club
format.       

(1)  
  Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods,
candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;         

(2)  
  Fuel and other categories consist of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;     

(3)  
  Technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture and photo
processing;         

(4)  
  Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small
appliances; and         

(5)  
  Health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services and over-the-counter drugs.     
         9   

The percentage of net sales for the Sam s Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise
category, was as follows during the fiscal years ended:      
      Operations.   Operating hours for Sam s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.,
Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members and Plus Members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday,
starting at 7:00 a.m.      Sam s Clubs are membership only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including
cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our
members  health benefit plans.      Members include both business owners and individual consumers. Individual consumers are referred to as
Advantage Members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage Member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for Business
Members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, Business Members can add up to 8 business associates to their business account for $35 (plus
taxes, if applicable) each. Sam s Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Advantage Members. The annual fee for a Plus Member (Business or Advantage) is $100 (plus taxes, if
applicable). In addition, Business Plus Members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each.        Seasonal Aspects of Operations.   The Sam s Club segment s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as
different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur
during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.        Competition.   Sam s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as
with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam s Club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for
desirable new club sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.   
    Distribution.   During fiscal 2012, approximately 63% of the Sam s Club segment s non-fuel purchases were shipped from the
Sam s Club segment s dedicated distribution facilities and from some of the Walmart U.S. segment s distribution centers. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam s Club segment s purchases directly to Sam s Club
locations. As of January 31, 2012, our Sam s Club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8.
Third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities.      The principal focus of our Sam s Club s distribution
operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours
in a cross-dock facility, sometimes less than an hour.      Sam s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common
carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.   
         10   

Other Segment Information       Certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 ( Annual Report to Shareholders ) under
the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and in Note 15 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  included therein, which information is incorporated
herein by reference. Note 15 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales, as well as long-lived assets in the United States. Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.       Employees       As of
the end of fiscal 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the United States and 0.8 million associates
internationally. Similar to other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and experiences significant turnover in associates each year.      Through fiscal 2011, the Company maintained separate profit sharing and 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally became participants following one
year of employment. The profit sharing component was entirely funded by the Company, and the Company also made additional contributions to the 401(k) component of the plan. In addition to the Company s contributions, associates could elect to
contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan.      Effective February 1, 2011, the Company terminated the
previous profit sharing and 401(k) plans and offered new safe harbor 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally become participants following one year of employment. Under the safe harbor
401(k) plans, the Company matches 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. The matching contributions immediately vest at 100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not
more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits.      Contribution expense associated with these plans was $752 million in fiscal 2012 and $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010.      In addition, in the U.S., the Company offers a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam s Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance,
matching a portion of purchases through the Associate Stock Purchase Plan and life insurance. The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The Company s medical plan has no lifetime maximum
benefit for most expenses.      In our operations outside the U.S., the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on
customary local practices and statutory requirements.   
         11   

Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has
been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted.      

Name    
      
     Business Experience    
      
   Current     Position     Held Since   

Age   

Neil M. Ashe   
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce beginning in January 2012. From April 2011 to July 2011, he served as Special Advisor to the
Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation, a mass media company. From July 2008 to April 2011, he served as President of CBS Interactive, Inc., an Internet content publisher. From October 2006 to June 2008, he served as Chief Executive Officer of
CNET Networks Inc., an Internet content company.  

2012  

44  

Rosalind G. Brewer   
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam s Club, effective February 1, 2012. From February 2011 to January 2012, she served as Executive Vice
President and President of the East business unit of Walmart U.S. From February 2010 to January 2011, she served as Executive Vice President and President of the South business unit of Walmart U.S. From March 2007 to January 2010, she served as
Divisional Senior Vice President of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in the Southeast. From October 2006 to February 2007, she served as regional vice president of Walmart U.S., responsible for operations in Georgia.  

2012  

49  

M. Susan Chambers   
      
  Executive Vice President, Global People. From December 2003 to April 2006, she served as Executive Vice President, Risk Management, Insurance and Benefits
Administration.  

2006  

54  

Leslie A. Dach   
      
  Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.  

2006  

57  

Michael T. Duke   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer. From September 2005 to January 2009, he served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart International.  

2009  

62  

Rollin L. Ford   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. From May 2006 to January 2012, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to
April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.  

2012  

49  

Jeffrey J. Gearhart   
      
  Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From February 2009 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel. From December 2007 to
February 2009, he served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel. From September 2003 to December 2007, he served as Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Division.  

2010  

47  

Charles M. Holley, Jr.   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From January 2007 to November 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Treasurer. From December 2005 to
January 2007, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance.  

2010  

55  

C. Douglas McMillon   
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International. From August 2005 to January 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, President and
Chief Executive Officer, Sam s Club.  

2009  

45  

William S. Simon   
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. From March 2007 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer,
Walmart U.S. From March 2006 to March 2007, he served as Executive Vice President, Professional Services, Walmart U.S.  

2010  

52  

S. Robson Walton   
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors.  

1992  

67  

Steven P. Whaley   
      
  Senior Vice President and Controller. From December 2005 to January 2007, he served as Vice President and Controller. From September 2005 to December 2005, he served as Vice
President and Assistant Controller.  

2007  

52  

12   

Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information    
  Our corporate website is located at  www.walmartstores.com . We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available
to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is  www.sec.gov . Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO and
Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at  www.walmartstores.com/investors . These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or
calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.      A description of any substantive amendment or waiver of
Walmart s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at  www.walmartstores.com  under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on
our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.       

ITEM 1A .   
      RISK FACTORS          The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that
apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.       General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.       General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax
rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart U.S. segment and Sam s Club
segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher levels of unemployment,
inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse
developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the United
States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our Walmart International segment.   
  Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign
exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic
factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our
operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our
customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.   
   We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store
formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance.       Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail
concepts successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets,
other store formats, and Sam s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel   
         13   

and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as
local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters
or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable
to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be
adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.   
   Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.    
  Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and
markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already
existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing
stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability
to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to
expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to
our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial
performance could be adversely affected.      We may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and
may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that
future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively
future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial performance.       Failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance.    
  Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number
of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and
related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets,
prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor
or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be adversely affected.       We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.       The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many
other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty
stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale
grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety
and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club   
         14   

operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Where necessary to
compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the
retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See  Item 1. Business  above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.   
  Although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which
could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.       Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of
those products could adversely affect our financial performance.       The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified
as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located
and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers  failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems
experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transportation availability and cost, transportation security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers
and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, the United States  foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the
importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could
adversely affect our financial performance.      Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of
food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the
concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could
adversely affect our financial performance.       Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative,
judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.    
  We currently conduct operations in 12 countries in Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, 5 countries in Central America, Japan, Mexico and the
United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2012, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 28% of our net sales. As a result of our
expansion activities in countries outside the United States, we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other
countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and
regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the United States and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.      Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could
adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other
activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our
Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the
United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions
due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.   
         15   

Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
      The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis,
weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornados, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in
which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or
more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of
the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distributions centers are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers  disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from
some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the
availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our
operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and could adversely affect our financial performance.      In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and
tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from
physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and
distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.
      We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
      We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Certain of these
lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the
plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in  Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. , which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in June 2001 in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California, asserting that the Company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay,
back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys  fees. On June 21, 2004, the U.S. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification. As defined by the U.S. district court, the
class included  [a]ll women employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to Wal-Mart s challenged pay and management track promotions policies and
practices.  The Company appealed the order to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and subsequently to the United States Supreme Court. On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to
the district court. On October 27, 2011, the plaintiffs  attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the Company s California retail facilities, and the Company filed a Motion to
Dismiss on January 13, 2012. On October 28, 2011, the plaintiffs  attorneys filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas entitled  Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. , proposing a class of
current and former female associates at the Company s Texas retail facilities and asserting claims and relief similar to those in the Dukes case. The Company filed a Motion to Dismiss on March 5, 2012. We discuss this case and other
litigation to which we are a party in greater detail below under the caption  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  and in Note 11 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders,
which are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
         16   

If we do not maintain the security of information relating to our customers, associates and vendors,
security information breaches through cybersecurity attacks or otherwise could damage our reputation with customers, associates and vendors, and we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.    
  As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, and we also receive personal information concerning our associates and
vendors. In addition, our online operations at  www.walmart.com ,  www.samsclub.com  and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless
payments. We maintain security measures with respect to such information, but despite these measures, we may be vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and others that attempt to penetrate the security measures that we have in place. A
compromise of our security systems (through cyber-attacks or otherwise which are rapidly evolving and sophisticated) that results in personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our
customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we
expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.       We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run
our business.       Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of
individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power
outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by
our associates. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the
interim. Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information
technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although
we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.   
   We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand
for our products and services, and our market share.       It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services
our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes,
preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.       

ITEM 1B.    
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS          None.

ITEM 2.    
    PROPERTIES          The number of
discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats and Sam s Clubs located in each state and territory of the United States and the number of units located in each of the geographic markets internationally in which we
operate are disclosed as of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption  Fiscal 2012 Unit Count  and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to
Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.        United States.   As of January 31, 2012, in the
U.S., we owned 3,381 of the buildings in which our discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and other small formats operated and 502 of the buildings in which our Sam s Clubs operated. Land on which our stores are located is either
owned or leased by the Company. We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.   
         17   

In the United States, we lease the remaining 487 buildings our stores and 109 buildings our clubs operate
from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or operating lease arrangements or from local governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some
of which escalate during the original lease or provide for additional rent based on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company s store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in
rents.      Our 133 Walmart U.S. and 25 Sam s Club distribution centers are located strategically throughout the United States. Of these 158
distribution facilities, we owned and operated 113 distribution facilities, we owned and a third party operated one distribution facility and third parties owned and operated 44 of our distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart
U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam s Club segment for certain items.      We own office facilities
in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the United States for our walmart.com operations and field management.        Walmart International.   We operate our Walmart International segment stores, restaurants and banks in a combination of owned and leased properties in each country in which our Walmart
International segment operates. As of the end of fiscal 2012, we owned 38 properties in Africa, 55 properties in Argentina, 186 properties in Brazil, 123 properties in Canada, 160 properties in Chile, 164 properties in Central America, 52 properties
in Japan, 646 properties in Mexico and 387 properties in the United Kingdom. The remaining 3,840 operating units are leased on terms that vary. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are
conducting business. As of the end of fiscal 2012, our Walmart International operations are supported by 158 distribution facilities. Of these 158 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 39, we owned and third parties operated 9 and we leased
and operated 68. Third parties leased and operated the remaining 42 distribution facilities.      For further information on our distribution
centers, see the caption  Distribution  provided for each of our segments under  Item 1. Business.        

ITEM 3.    
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS           I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:  We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled  Legal Proceedings,  which is referenced in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption
 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  and is incorporated by reference, and refer to that discussion for important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the
relief sought. We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In
each lawsuit s name, the letters  WM  refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       Wage-and-Hour Class Action:   Braun/Hummel v.
WM , Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02   8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/07/07; Supreme Court of PA, Harrisburg, PA, 10/09/11.       Gender Discrimination Class Actions:   Dukes v. WM , USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, San Francisco Div., 6/19/01; 9th Circuit Ct. of Appeals, San Francisco, CA, 8/26/04; US Supreme Court,
Washington DC, 8/25/10;  Odle v. WM , USDC, Northern Dist. of TX, Dallas Div., 10/27/11.       II. ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS: 
Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following environmental matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement, as well as other matters.   
   Environmental:  On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Central
District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or
hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (the
 RCRA ), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the
Company s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as  hazardous
waste  directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney s Office in the Northern District of California and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the  EPA ) subsequently
joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and
regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   
         18   

In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the
 USACE ) was concerned about alleged violations of a permit issued by that agency in 2003, for the fill of 0.23 acres of a creek and its contiguous wetlands during the construction of the Wal-Mart Store in Caguas, Puerto Rico. On
January 19, 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico responded to these issues in writing. On January 25, 2007, the USACE issued a formal Notice of Non-Compliance to Wal-Mart Puerto Rico regarding this matter. Wal-Mart Puerto Rico filed a formal
response, implemented mitigation measures, and continues to monitor and provide the required maintenance to the mitigation area. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a
material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.      On March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of
Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (the  Department ) alleging various violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company
had contracted for recycling services. The Department alleged that the Company provided certain items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. The Company has resolved the issues with the Department by
entering into a settlement agreement which includes payment of a $214,378 penalty and an agreement to implement a supplemental environmental project valued at $1,050,000 to help local residents properly manage household hazardous wastes. The EPA
inspected the contractor s facilities, and both the EPA and the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Western District of Missouri are conducting investigations. The Company is cooperating with these authorities. While management cannot predict
the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.      In March 2011, the Office of the District Attorney for Riverside County, California, notified the Company that it had initiated an investigation of whether third party contractors hired by the Company had
violated California laws regarding the disposal of construction materials at a local landfill. The Company is cooperating with the District Attorney s Office. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does
not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.      In January 2011, the
Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda, a subsidiary of the Company, of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at
nine store locations in Brazil. WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda is cooperating with the agency as well as the District Attorney s Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation. While
management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   
  In July 2011, the Environmental Patrol and the Environmental Department for Bento Goncalves Municipality, Brazil, notified WMS Supermercados do Brasil
Ltda that they are investigating alleged soil contamination involving a leaking subsoil oil duct at a store site. To resolve this, the Environmental Department for the municipality proposed a plan which includes a penalty of R$168,570 (approximately
$96,000) or an agreement to donate certain items and services to the City in lieu of the penalty. The Environmental Department is also investigating alleged soil contamination from wastewater at the same store. WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda is
cooperating with the agencies. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   
   Other:  During fiscal 2012, the Company began conducting a voluntary internal review of its policies, procedures and internal controls pertaining
to its global anti-corruption compliance program. As a result of information obtained during that review and from other sources, the Company has begun an internal investigation into whether certain matters, including permitting, licensing and
inspections, were in compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company has engaged outside counsel and other advisors to assist in the review of these matters and has implemented, and is continuing to implement, appropriate
remedial measures. The Company has voluntarily disclosed its internal investigation to the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission. We cannot reasonably estimate the potential liability, if any, related to these
matters. However, based on the facts currently known, we do not believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

ITEM 4.    
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES          Not
applicable.   
         19   

PART II     

ITEM 5.    
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       
  Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions  Market
price of common stock,   Listing  and  Dividends paid per share  in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is an exhibit to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.      Our common stock is primarily traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At March 22, 2012, the latest
practicable date, there were 275,525 common stock shareholders of record.      From time to time, the Company has repurchased shares of its common
stock under a $15.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on June 3, 2010 and announced on June 4, 2010. On June 2, 2011, the Company s Board of Directors replaced that share repurchase program,
which had approximately $2.1 billion of remaining authorization for share repurchases as of that date, with a new $15.0 billion share repurchase program, announced on June 3, 2011. As a result, the Company terminated and will make no further
share repurchases under the program announced on June 4, 2010. Consistent with the replaced share repurchase program, the new program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which the Company can make share
repurchases and will expire only when and if the Company has repurchased $15.0 billion of its shares under the newly authorized program or it earlier terminates or is replaced by a newly authorized program. Any repurchased shares are constructively
retired and returned to an unissued status.      Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program was as follows during the three
months ended January 31, 2012:       

ITEM 6.    
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption  Five-Year Financial Summary  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.       

ITEM 7.    
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

ITEM 7A.    
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK          The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption  Market Risk  under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

ITEM 8.    
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA          The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions  Consolidated Statements of Income,   Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity,   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income,   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  and  Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

ITEM 9.    
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       
  None.   
         20   

ITEM 9A.    
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES       
   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to
management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control
objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures
with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.      In the
ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal
control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes. In fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new financial system in stages and, to date, have completed implementations
in Argentina, Canada, Japan, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States. The new financial system is a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to implement our new financial system in stages,
and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.      An evaluation of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable
assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified by the SEC s rules and forms.       Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst   Young LLP, the Company s
independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company s internal control over financial reporting are incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions  Management s Report to Our Shareholders  and
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,  respectively, included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.       Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Except for the ongoing system implementation noted above, there has been no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012, that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.    
    OTHER INFORMATION          None.
       PART III         

ITEM 10.    
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE          Information required by this item with respect to the Company s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial
owners of the Company s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled  Information About the Board  and
 Stock Ownership Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 1, 2012 (our  Proxy Statement ).   
  Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption  Executive
Officers of the Registrant,  which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC s Regulation S-K.      No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement
relating to our 2011 Annual Shareholders  Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.   
         21   

The information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts, and our
Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions  Information About the Board Board Committees,   Corporate
Governance Audit Committee Financial Experts  and  Corporate Governance Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers  included in our Proxy Statement.  Item 1. Business  above contains information
relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics and the posting of amendments to and any waivers of the Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers on
our website.       

ITEM 11.    
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION          The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions  Information About the Board   Compensation of the Directors,   Executive Compensation  and under the sub-captions
 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report  that appear under the caption  Corporate Governance  included in our Proxy Statement.   

ITEM 12.    
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       
  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions  Holdings of Major
Shareholders  and  Holdings of Officers and Directors  that appear under the caption  Stock Ownership  and all information that appears under the caption  Equity Compensation Plan Information  included in our Proxy
Statement.       

ITEM 13.    
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption  Related-Party Transactions,  under the caption  Corporate
Governance Transaction Review Policy  and under the caption  Information About the Board Director Independence  included in our Proxy Statement.   

ITEM 14.    
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption  Corporate Governance Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy  and under the
caption  Company Proposals Proposal No. 2: Ratification of Independent Accountants  included in our Proxy Statement.        PART IV         

ITEM 15.    
    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          (a) (1) and (2)  Consolidated Financial Statements       The financial statements
listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.   
         22   

Annual     Report to     Shareholders     (page)   

Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2012   

21  

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2012 and 2011   

22  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2012   

23  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2012   

24  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2012   

25  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

26  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

49  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

50  

Management s Report to Our Shareholders   

51  
       
    Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto.  
         23   

The following documents are
filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K:       

3   
  (a)   
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated October 25, 1988, the Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation executed August 19, 1991,
and the Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation executed July 27, 1999, are incorporated hereby by reference to Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
333-178385).   

3   
  (b)   
     
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended
April 30, 2011, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 3, 2011.   

4   
  (a)   
     
  Form of Indenture dated as of June 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen s Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-97917).   

4   
  (b)   
     
  Form of Indenture dated as of August 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen s Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).   

4   
  (c)   
     
  Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston
and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).   

4   
  (d)   
     
  Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-35710).   

4   
  (e)   
     
  Indenture dated as of April 1, 1991, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, as successor
trustee to The First National Bank of Chicago, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-51344).   

4   
  (f)   
     
  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 9, 1992, to the Indenture dated as of April 1, 1991, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as
successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, as successor trustee to The First National Bank of Chicago, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-51344).   

4   
  (g)   
     
  Indenture dated as of July 5, 2001, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-64740).   

4   
  (h)   
     
  Indenture dated as of December 11, 2002, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, is incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-101847).   
 
         24   

4   
  (i)   
     
  Indenture dated as of July 19, 2005, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-126512).   

4   
  (j)   
     
  First Supplemental Indenture, dated December 1, 2006, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).   

+10  
  (a)   
     
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2012 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.   

+10  
  (b)   
     
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a
part of the Company s Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2008.   

+10  
  (c)   
     
  The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective June 4, 2010, are incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company s
Schedule 14A filed on April 19, 2010.   

+10  
  (d)   
     
  The ASDA Colleague Share Ownership Plan 1999, as amended June 4, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal
year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.   

+10  
  (e)   
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Award and Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

+10  
  (f)   
     
  Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to
Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

+10  
  (g)   
     
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.   

+10  
  (h)   
     
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010, is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company s Schedule 14A filed on
April 19, 2010.   

+10  
  (i)   
     
  Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.   

+10  
  (j)   
     
  Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

+10  
  (k)   
     
  Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   
 
         25   

+10(l)  

Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company
for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.   

+10(m)  

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan amended and restated effective February 1, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of the Company dated September 29, 2011.   

+10(n)  

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan, amended and restated Effective June 4, 2010 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.   

+10(o)  

Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and H. Lee Scott, Jr., dated November 20, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated and filed November 21, 2008.   

+10(p)  

Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to
Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, filed on March 30, 2011.   

+10(q)  

Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Thomas M. Schoewe, dated September 28, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the
Company dated September 29, 2010.   

+10(r)  

Wal-Mart Deferred Compensation Matching Plan, effective February 1, 2012, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated
September 29, 2011.   

+10(s)  

Retirement Agreement between Eduardo Castro-Wright and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. dated September 23, 2011, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K of
the Company dated September 27, 2011 and filed September 27, 2011.   

*12  

Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.   

*13  

Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with
Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.   

*21  

List of the Company s Significant Subsidiaries.   

*23  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

*31.1  

Chief Executive Officer Section 302 Certification.   

*31.2  

Chief Financial Officer Section 302 Certification.   

**32.1  

Chief Executive Officer Section 906 Certification.   

**32.2  

Chief Financial Officer Section 906 Certification.   

101.INS  
  **   
     
  XBRL Instance Document.   
 
         26   

101.SCH  
  **   
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.   

101.CAL  
  **   
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.   

101.DEF  
  **   
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.   

101.LAB  
  **   
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.   

101.PRE  
  **   
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.   

*  
  Filed herewith as an Exhibit.     

**  
  Furnished herewith as an Exhibit.     

+  
  Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this report.     

         27   

SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.       

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Michael T. Duke    

Michael T. Duke   

President and Chief Executive Officer   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:       

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Michael T. Duke    

Michael T. Duke   

President and Chief Executive Officer and Director   

(Principal Executive Officer)   

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ S. Robson Walton    

S. Robson Walton   

Chairman of the Board and Director   

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    

Charles M. Holley, Jr.   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Steven P. Whaley    

Steven P. Whaley   

Senior Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Aida M. Alvarez    

Aida M. Alvarez   

Director   

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ James W. Breyer    

James W. Breyer   

Director   

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ M. Michele Burns    

M. Michele Burns   

Director   

DATE: March 27, 2012  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ James I. Cash, Jr.    

James I. Cash, Jr.   

Director   
    Signature Page to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
  Form 10-K for Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012   
         28   

Signature Page to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
  Form 10-K for Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2012   
         29   

<EX-12>
 2
 d270972dex12.htm
 STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF THE EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES RATIOS

Statement Regarding Computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios 

Exhibit 12         Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

1      
    Includes interest on debt and capital leases, amortization of debt issuance costs and capitalized interest.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 d270972dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders 

EXHIBIT 13        Five-Year Financial Summary       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
   (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share and unit count data)    

(1)      
    Comparable store and club sales include fuel. Fiscal 2008 comparable sales include all stores and clubs that were open for at least the previous 12
months; however, stores and clubs that were relocated, expanded or converted are excluded from comparable sales for the first 12 months following the relocation, expansion or conversion. Fiscal 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 comparable sales include
sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations and expansions, as well as online sales.      
         1   

Table of Contents    

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

3  

Consolidated Statements of Income   

21  

Consolidated Balance Sheets   

22  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity   

23  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   

24  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

25  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

26  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

49  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

50  

Management s Report to our Shareholders   

51  

Fiscal 2012 Unit Count   

53  

Board of Directors   

55  

Corporate and Stock Information   

56  

2   

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.        Management s Discussion and Analysis of        Financial Condition and Results of
Operations        Overview    
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart,  the  Company  or  we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is
committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ( EDLP ), while fostering a culture that
rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price everyday so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activities. Our focus
for Sam s Club is to provide exceptional value on brand name and private label merchandise at  members only  prices for both business and personal use. Internationally, we operate with similar philosophies.   
  Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ( U.S. ) and Canadian operations and on December 31 for all other
operations. We discuss how the results of our various operations are consolidated for financial reporting purposes in Note 1 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to
year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. We also discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess our performance. Additionally,
the discussion provides information about the financial results of the various segments of our business to provide a better understanding of how those segments and their results affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company
as a whole. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, and accompanying notes.      Currently, our operations consist of three reportable business segments: the Walmart U.S. segment; the Walmart International segment; and the Sam s Club segment. The Walmart U.S. segment includes the
Company s mass merchant concept in the U.S. operating under the  Walmart  or  Wal-Mart  brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company s operations outside of the U.S. The
Sam s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the U.S., as well as samsclub.com.      Throughout this Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we discuss segment operating income and comparable store and club sales. The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment s
operating income, including certain corporate overhead allocations. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed
by our chief operating decision maker. When we do so, the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. The amounts representing  Other unallocated  in the leverage
discussion of the Company Performance Metrics include unallocated corporate overhead and other items.      Comparable store and club sales is a
metric which indicates the performance of our existing U.S. stores and clubs by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs for a particular period from the corresponding period in the prior year. Walmart s definition of comparable
store and club sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations and expansions, as well as sales initiated online. Changes in format continue to be excluded from comparable store and club
sales when the conversion is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in square feet of more than five percent. Comparable store and club sales are also referred to as  same-store  sales by others within the retail
industry. The method of calculating comparable store and club sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of comparable store and club sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other
companies.      In discussing our operating results, we sometimes refer to the impact of changes in currency exchange rates that we use to convert
the operating results for all countries where the functional currency is not denominated in the U.S. dollar for financial reporting purposes. We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period
activity translated using the current period s currency exchange rates and the comparable prior period s currency exchange rates. We exclude the impact of current period acquisitions from our calculation. We refer to the results of this
calculation as currency translation fluctuations throughout our discussion. When we refer to constant currency operating results, we are referring to our operating results without the impact of the currency translation fluctuations and without the
impact of current period acquisitions. The disclosure of constant currency amounts or results, excluding the effect of acquisitions, permits investors to understand better our underlying performance without the effects of currency exchange rate
fluctuations or acquisitions.      We made certain reclassifications to prior fiscal year amounts or balances to conform to the presentation in
the current fiscal year. These reclassifications did not impact consolidated operating income or net income. Additionally, certain segment asset and expense allocations have been reclassified among segments in the current period.   
         3   

The Retail Industry        We operate in the highly competitive retail industry in all of the countries we serve. We face strong sales competition from other discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores,
warehouse clubs and supermarkets. Many of these competitors are national, regional or international chains, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. We compete with a number of companies for prime retail site locations, as well as
in attracting and retaining quality employees (whom we call  associates ). We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: general economic conditions, cost of goods, consumer
disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, interest rates, customer preferences, unemployment, labor costs, inflation, deflation, currency exchange fluctuations, fuel and energy prices, weather
patterns, climate change, catastrophic events, competitive pressures and insurance costs. Further information on certain risks to our Company can be located in  Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended January 31, 2012.       Company Performance Metrics       The Company s performance metrics emphasize three priorities for improving shareholder value: growth, leverage and returns. The Company s priority of growth focuses on sales through comparable
store and club sales and unit square feet growth; the priority of leverage encompasses the Company s objective to increase its operating income at a faster rate than the growth in net sales by growing its operating, selling, general and
administrative expenses ( operating expenses ) at a slower rate than the growth of its net sales; and the priority of returns focuses on how efficiently the Company employs its assets through return on investment ( ROI ) and how
effectively the Company manages working capital through free cash flow.         Growth      
   Net Sales        
    Our consolidated net sales increased 5.9% and 3.4% in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the previous fiscal
year. The increase in net sales for fiscal 2012 was attributable to a combination of an increase in comparable sales, growth in retail square feet and currency translation benefits, while the increase in net sales for fiscal 2011 was attributable to
growth in retail square feet and currency translation benefits, partially offset by a decline in comparable store and club sales. Acquisitions also contributed to the increase in net sales for fiscal 2012. Our continued expansion activities added
5.3% and 3.4% of additional retail square feet during fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Currency translation benefits accounted for $4.0 billion and $4.5 billion of the increase in net sales for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The acquisitions
of Netto and Massmart completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, and further discussed in Note 14 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  accounted for $4.7 billion of the net sales increase in fiscal 2012. Volatility in
currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Company s net sales in the future.       Calendar Comparable Store and Club Sales
      Comparable store and club sales is a measure which indicates the performance of our existing U.S. stores and clubs by measuring the growth
in sales for such stores and clubs for a particular period over the corresponding period in the previous fiscal year. The retail industry generally reports comparable store and club sales using the retail calendar (also known as the 4-5-4 calendar)
and, to be consistent with the retail industry, we provide comparable store and club sales using the retail calendar in our quarterly earnings releases. However, when we discuss our comparable store and club sales below, we are referring to our
calendar comparable store and club sales calculated using our fiscal calendar. As our fiscal calendar differs from the retail calendar, our calendar comparable store   
         4   

and club sales also differ from the retail calendar comparable store and club sales provided in our quarterly earnings releases. Calendar comparable store and club sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and
2010 are as follows:       
    Comparable store and club sales in the U.S., including fuel, increased 1.6% in fiscal 2012 and decreased 0.6% and 0.8% in
fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. U.S. comparable store sales increased during fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in average ticket, partially offset by a decline in traffic. Comparable club sales were higher during fiscal 2012 due to a
larger member base driving increased traffic, as well as a broader assortment of items. Total U.S. comparable store and club sales decreased during fiscal 2011 primarily due to a decline in customer traffic. Although customer traffic increased in
fiscal 2010, comparable store and club sales in the U.S. were lower than those in the previous fiscal year due to deflation in certain merchandise categories and lower fuel prices.      As we continue to add new stores and clubs in the U.S., we do so with an understanding that additional stores and clubs may take sales away from existing units. We estimate the negative impact on
comparable store and club sales as a result of opening new stores and clubs was approximately 0.8% in fiscal 2012 and 2011 and 0.6% in fiscal 2010.         Leverage          Operating Income    
   
    We believe comparing the growth of our operating expenses to the growth of our net sales and comparing the growth of our
operating income to the growth of our net sales are meaningful measures as they indicate how effectively we manage costs and leverage operating expenses. Our objective is to grow operating expenses at a slower rate than net sales and to grow
operating income at a faster rate than net sales. On occasion, we may make strategic growth investments that may, at times, cause our operating expenses to grow at a rate faster than net sales and that may grow our operating income at a slower rate
than net sales.       Operating Expenses       We leveraged operating expenses in fiscal 2012 and 2011. In fiscal 2012, our operating expenses increased 4.8% compared to fiscal 2011, while net sales increased 5.9% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal
2011. Operating expenses grew at a slower rate than net sales due to our continued focus on expense management. Our Global eCommerce initiatives contributed to the majority of the increase in operating expenses, as we continue to invest in our
e-commerce platforms. Depreciation expense increased year-over-year based on our financial system investments with the remainder of the increase being driven by multiple items, none of which were individually significant. In fiscal 2011, our
operating expenses increased 1.7% compared to fiscal 2010, while net sales increased 3.4% during fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. Operating expenses grew at a slower rate than net sales in fiscal 2011 due to improved labor productivity and
organizational changes made at the end of fiscal 2010 designed to strengthen and streamline our operations, as well as a reduction in certain incentive plan expenses.       Operating Income       As a result of the factors discussed above and our investment in price
for products sold in our retail operations, which reduced our gross margin, our operating income increased 4.0% and 6.4% in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, while net sales increased 5.9% and 3.4% in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.
  
         5   

Returns          Return on Investment       Management believes return on investment ( ROI ) is a
meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term potential strategic initiatives with any possible
short-term impacts. ROI was 18.6% and 19.2% for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease in ROI in fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011 was due primarily to additional investments in property, plant and equipment, Global eCommerce and higher
inventories, as well as price investment ahead of full realization of productivity improvements. In future periods, productivity gains are expected to align more closely with price investments. Additionally, to a lesser degree, ROI was positively
impacted by currency translation fluctuations, but offset by acquisitions.      We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus
interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the fiscal year divided by average invested capital during that period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets of
continuing operations, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year multiplied by a factor of
eight.      ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We consider return on assets ( ROA ) to be the financial measure computed in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) that is the most directly comparable financial measure to ROI as we calculate that financial measure. ROI differs from ROA (which is income from continuing operations for
the fiscal year divided by average total assets of continuing operations for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets from continuing operations for the impact
of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.      Although ROI is a standard financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating a company s ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate ROI may differ from the methods other
companies use to calculate their ROI. We urge you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI before comparing our ROI to that of such other companies.   
         6   

The calculation of ROI, along with a reconciliation to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP
financial measurement, is as follows:       

(1)  
  The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the prior period and dividing by 2.
    
     Free Cash Flow
      We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that
period. We generated positive free cash flow of $10.7 billion, $10.9 billion and $14.1 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The modest decline in free cash flow in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011
was primarily due to capital expenditures outpacing the growth in net cash generated from operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow during fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increased investment in inventory after fiscal 2010 ended with
relatively low inventory levels, partially offset by increases in accounts payable.      Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial
measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company s financial performance. Free cash flow
should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, income from continuing operations as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.   
         7   

Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows
available for discretionary expenditures as the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow
as a measure that provides supplemental information to our entire statement of cash flows.      Although other companies report their free cash
flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company s free cash flow. As a result, the method used by our management to calculate free cash flow may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their free cash flow. We urge
you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow before comparing our free cash flow to that of such other companies.      The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most
directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.       

(1)      
     Net cash used in investing activities  includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash
flow.          Results of Operations       The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our continuing operations and excludes any results or discussion of our discontinued operations.   
    Consolidated Results of Operations         
    Our consolidated net sales increased 5.9% and 3.4% in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the previous fiscal
year. The increase in net sales for fiscal 2012 was attributable to a combination of an increase in comparable sales, growth in retail square feet and currency translation benefits, while the increase in net sales for fiscal 2011 was attributable to
growth in retail square feet and currency translation benefits, partially offset by a decline in comparable store and club sales. Acquisitions also contributed to the increase in net sales for fiscal 2012. Our continued expansion activities,
including acquisitions, added 5.3% and 3.4% of additional retail square feet during fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Currency translation benefits accounted for $4.0 billion and $4.5 billion of the increase in net sales for fiscal 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The acquisitions of Netto and Massmart completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, and further discussed in Note 14 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  accounted for $4.7 billion of the net sales increase
in fiscal 2012. Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Company s net sales in the future.   
         8   

Our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales ( gross profit margin ), declined 33 and 11 basis
points in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the previous fiscal year. All three segments realized a decline in gross profit margin during fiscal 2012 based on our investment in price. Our Walmart U.S. segment and Walmart International
segment net sales yield higher gross profit margins than our Sam s Club segment, which operates on lower margins as a membership club warehouse. In fiscal 2011, gross profit margin was relatively flat compared to fiscal 2010.   
  Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, were 19.2%, 19.4% and 19.7% for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In fiscal 2012, operating
expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to our focus on expense management. In fiscal 2011, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to improved labor productivity and organizational changes
implemented at the end of fiscal 2010 designed to strengthen and streamline our operations, as well as a reduction in certain incentive plan expenses.      Operating income was $26.6 billion, $25.5 billion and $24.0 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Effects of currency exchange fluctuations positively impacted operating income in fiscal
2012 and 2011 by $105 million and $231 million, respectively. Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Company s operating income in the future.      Our effective income tax rate on consolidated income from continuing operations was 32.6% in fiscal 2012 compared with 32.2% and 32.4% in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective income tax rate
for fiscal 2012 remained largely consistent with the rates for fiscal 2011 and 2010 primarily as a result of net favorability in various items during fiscal 2012. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2011 was consistent with that for fiscal 2010
due to recognizing certain net tax benefits totaling $434 million and $372 million in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, stemming primarily from the decision to repatriate certain non-U.S. earnings that increased the Company s U.S. foreign tax
credits and favorable adjustments to transfer pricing agreements. The reconciliation from the U.S. statutory rate to the effective tax rates for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 is presented in Note 10 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  We expect the fiscal 2013 annual effective tax rate to be approximately 32.5% to 33.5%. Significant factors that may impact the annual effective tax rate include changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, valuation
allowances, changes in law, outcomes of administrative audits, the impact of discrete items and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations.      As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $16.5 billion, $16.0 billion and $15.0 billion of income from continuing operations for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    Walmart U.S. Segment         
    Net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment increased 1.5% and 0.1% in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the
previous fiscal year. The increase in net sales for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 is primarily due to a 1.6% increase in year-over-year retail square feet. Walmart U.S. net sales were relatively flat for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 as
growth in retail square feet was offset by a decline in comparable store sales of 1.5% caused by slower customer traffic.      Gross profit margin
was relatively flat in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the previous fiscal year.      Operating expenses, as a percentage of
segment net sales, declined 10 basis points during fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, as the segment focused on improved labor productivity and managing expenses. Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased by 28 basis points in
fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 due to improved labor productivity and a reduction in incentive plan expenses.   
         9   

As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income was $20.4 billion, $19.9 billion and $19.3
billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Walmart International Segment     
   
    Net sales for the Walmart International segment increased 15.2% and 12.1% for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively,
compared to the previous fiscal year. The increase in net sales during fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was due to year-over-year growth in retail square feet of 14.7%, including acquisitions, constant currency sales growth in every country, $4.7
billion of sales from the acquisitions of Massmart and Netto and currency translation benefits of $4.0 billion during fiscal 2012. Constant currency sales grew 7.2 percent compared to fiscal 2011. Mexico, China and the United Kingdom contributed the
highest dollar increases to Walmart International s net sales growth in fiscal 2012, excluding the impact of acquisitions. The increase in net sales for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was due to year-over-year growth in retail square feet
of 7.8%, $4.5 billion of favorable currency translation benefits and constant currency sales growth in nearly every country.      Gross profit
margin decreased 46 basis points for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, due primarily to the acquisitions of Netto and Massmart included in the fiscal 2012 results and not in the fiscal 2011 results. Constant currency gross margin as a percentage
of sales was flat in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. Gross profit margin was relatively flat in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.   
  Segment operating expenses, as a percentage of segment net sales, decreased 19 basis points in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 due to the
acquisitions of Netto and Massmart in fiscal 2012. Constant currency operating expenses increased slower than sales at 6.2%. The United Kingdom, Japan and Canada leveraged operating expenses most significantly in fiscal 2012. Operating expenses, as
a percentage of net sales, decreased 26 basis points in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 due to effective expense management in Japan and the United Kingdom.      Each country had positive constant currency operating income in fiscal 2012, except India. India is a growing wholesale, cash and carry and retail franchise business with many new locations and generated
significant sales growth in fiscal 2012. Currency exchange rate fluctuations increased operating income by $105 million and $231 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Walmart
International segment s operating results in the future.      As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income was $6.2 billion,
$5.6 billion and $4.9 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         10   

Sam s Club Segment        We believe the information in the following table under the caption  Excluding Fuel  is useful to investors because it permits investors to understand the effect of the Sam s Club
segment s fuel sales, which are impacted by the volatility of fuel prices.       
    Net sales for the Sam s Club segment increased 8.8% and 3.5% for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the
previous fiscal year. The net sales increase in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to positive comparable club sales, driven by customer traffic, increases in average ticket and higher fuel sales. Higher fuel sales, resulting from
higher fuel prices and increased gallons sold, positively impacted comparable sales by 340 basis points during fiscal 2012. The fiscal 2011 growth in net sales is primarily due to the increase in average ticket and member traffic. In addition, fuel
sales, driven by higher fuel prices and gallons sold, positively impacted comparable club sales by 200 basis points in fiscal 2011. Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the net sales and operating income of the Sam s Club segment in
the future.      Gross profit margin decreased 41 basis points for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The gross profit margin decrease was
driven by the highly competitive retail environment, as well as inflation and high fuel costs. Fuel costs negatively impacted the comparison by 33 basis points for fiscal 2012. Gross profit margin was relatively flat for fiscal 2011 compared to
fiscal 2010.      Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 55 basis points and 48 basis points in fiscal 2012 and 2011,
respectively, compared to the previous fiscal year. Fuel, which positively impacted the comparison by 31 and 19 basis points for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively, and improved wage management were the primary drivers of the basis point reduction
in operating expenses as a percentage of segment net sales for both fiscal years.      As a result of the factors discussed above, operating
income was $1.9 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.       Liquidity and Capital Resources
      Cash flows provided by operating activities have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. We use these cash flows,
supplemented with long-term debt and short-term borrowings, to fund our operations and global expansion activities. Generally, some or all of the remaining free cash flow, if any, funds all or part of the dividends on our common stock and share
repurchases.   
         11   

(1)      
     Net cash used in investing activities  includes payments for property and equipment, which is also included in our computation of free cash
flow.           Cash Flows from Operating Activities        Cash flows provided by operating activities were $24.3 billion, $23.6 billion and $26.2 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in operating cash flow in fiscal 2012 compared to
fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of additional income from continuing operations and the timing of payments for accrued liabilities. The decrease in cash flow from operating activities during fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increased
investment in inventory after fiscal 2010 ended with relatively low inventory levels, partially offset by increases in accounts payable.   
   Cash Equivalents and Working Capital    
  Cash and cash equivalents were $6.6 billion and $7.4 billion at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, of which, $5.6 billion and $7.1 billion,
respectively, were held outside of the U.S. and are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in our foreign operations. Our working capital deficits were $7.3 billion and $6.6 billion at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We
generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations and in providing returns to our shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and the payment of dividends.   
  We employ financing strategies in an effort to ensure that cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum cost
possible. We do not believe it will be necessary to repatriate cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. and anticipate our domestic liquidity needs will be met through other funding sources (ongoing cash flows generated from operations,
external borrowings, or both). Accordingly, we intend, with only certain limited exceptions, to continue to permanently reinvest the cash in our foreign operations. Were our intention to change, most of the amounts held within our foreign operations
could be repatriated to the U.S., although any repatriations under current U.S. tax laws would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. As of January 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately $768 million and $691
million, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions. We do not expect local laws, other limitations or potential taxes on anticipated future repatriations of amounts held outside of the United
States to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.        Cash Flows from Investing
Activities        Cash flows from investing activities generally consist of payments for property and equipment, which were $13.5 billion,
$12.7 billion and $12.2 billion during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These capital expenditures primarily relate to new store growth, as well as remodeling costs for existing stores and our investments in Global eCommerce. Additionally,
in fiscal 2012, we made additional investments of $3.5 billion, net of cash acquired, for the acquisitions of Netto and Massmart, further discussed in Note 14 in  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  in addition to other immaterial
acquisitions. We expect capital expenditures for property and equipment in fiscal 2013, excluding any business acquisitions, to range between $13.0 billion and $14.0 billion.       Global Expansion Activities       We expect to finance our fiscal 2013 global expansion plans
primarily through cash flows from operations and future debt financings. The following table represents our estimated range for capital expenditures and growth in retail square feet by segment for fiscal 2013. This table does not include growth in
retail square feet from pending or future acquisitions.       
 
         12   

The following table represents the allocation of our capital expenditures for property and equipment:
      
      Cash Flows from Financing Activities        Cash flows from financing activities generally consist of transactions related to our short- and long-term debt, as well as dividends paid and the repurchase of Company stock.   
   Short-Term Borrowings       Net short-term
borrowings increased by $3.0 billion and $503 million in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively, and decreased by $1.0 billion in fiscal 2010. From time to time, we utilize the liquidity under our short-term borrowing programs to fund our
operations, dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and for other cash requirements and corporate purposes on an as-needed basis. We utilized the favorable interest rates available on our commercial paper and increased our
short-term borrowings throughout fiscal 2012.       Long-Term Debt       Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were $5.1 billion, $11.4 billion and $5.5 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were used to
pay down or refinance existing debt, and for other general corporate purposes.      Information on our significant issuances of long-term debt
during fiscal 2012 is as follows (amounts in millions):       
    The notes of each series require semi-annual interest payments on April 15 and October 15 of each year, with
the first interest payment having commenced on October 15, 2011. Unless previously purchased and canceled, the Company will repay the notes of each series at 100% of their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, at
their maturity. The notes of each series are senior, unsecured obligations of the Company.       Dividends    
  On March 1, 2012, our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend for fiscal 2013 of $1.59 per share, an increase of approximately 9% over the
dividends paid in fiscal 2012. Dividends per share were $1.46 and $1.21 in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. For fiscal 2013, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.3975 per share, according to the following record
and payable dates:   
         13   

We paid aggregate dividends of $5.0 billion, $4.4 billion and $4.2 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
We expect to pay aggregate dividends of approximately $5.4 billion in fiscal 2013.       Company Share Repurchase Program    
  From time to time, we have repurchased shares of our common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors. The current share
repurchase program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make share repurchases. At January 31, 2012, authorization for $11.3 billion of additional share repurchases remained under the current share
repurchase program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.      We consider several factors in
determining when to execute the share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock. Cash paid for share repurchases during fiscal 2012, 2011 and
2010 was as follows:       
     Capital Resources       Management believes cash flows from continuing operations and proceeds from the issuance of short-term borrowings will be sufficient to finance seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and meet other
cash requirements. If our operating cash flows are not sufficient to pay dividends and to fund our capital expenditures, we anticipate funding any shortfall in these expenditures with a combination of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We
plan to refinance existing long-term debt obligations as they mature and may desire to obtain additional long-term financing for other corporate purposes.      Our access to the commercial paper and long-term debt markets has historically provided us with substantial sources of liquidity. We anticipate no difficulty in obtaining financing from those markets in
the future in view of our favorable experiences in the debt markets in the recent past. Our ability to continue to access the commercial paper and long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms will depend, to a significant
degree, on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness continuing to be at or above the level of our current ratings. At January 31, 2012, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our
outstanding long-term debt were as follows:       

Rating agency    
      
   Commercial paper   
     
   Long-term debt    

Standard   Poor s   
      
  A-1+  
     
  AA   
 
    Moody s Investors Service   
      
  P-1  
     
  Aa2   
 
    Fitch Ratings   
      
  F1+  
     
  AA   
 
    DBRS Limited   
      
  R-1(middle)  
     
  AA   
    In the event that the ratings of our commercial paper or any rated series of our outstanding long-term debt issues were
lowered or withdrawn for any reason or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of our long-term debt securities were lower than those noted above, our ability to access the debt markets would be adversely affected. In addition, in such a case, our
cost of funds for new issues of commercial paper and long-term debt (i.e., the rate of interest on any such indebtedness) would be higher than our cost of funds had the ratings of those new issues been at or above the level of the ratings noted
above. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated
independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.   
         14   

To monitor our credit ratings and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and
quantitative factors. We monitor the ratio of our debt-to-total capitalization as support for our long-term financing decisions. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, the ratio of our debt-to-total capitalization was 42.8% and 42.1%, respectively. For
the purpose of this calculation, debt is defined as the sum of short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, obligations under capital leases due within one year, long-term debt and long-term obligations under capital leases. Total
capitalization is defined as debt plus total Walmart shareholders  equity. The ratio of our debt-to-total capitalization increased in fiscal 2012 as we increased our long-term debt and commercial paper as a result of favorable interest rates.
Additionally, our share repurchases contributed to the increase in our debt-to-total capitalization ratio in fiscal 2012.       Contractual
Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments       The following table sets forth certain information concerning our obligations and commitments
to make contractual future payments, such as debt and lease agreements, and certain contingent commitments:       
    Additionally, the Company has approximately $18.5 billion in undrawn lines of credit and standby letters of credit which,
if drawn upon, would be included in the liabilities section of the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Estimated interest payments
are based on our principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding at January 31, 2012 and management s forecasted market rates for our variable rate debt.      Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition/license
commitments and legally binding service contracts. Purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other services are not included in the preceding table. Purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. For the
purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased;
fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods. We also enter into contracts for
outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.      The expected timing for payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid with respect to some unrecorded contractual
commitments may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.   
  In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $611 million of unrecognized tax benefits are considered uncertain tax positions and have been
recorded as liabilities. The timing of the payment associated with these liabilities is uncertain. Refer to Note 10 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.   
   Off Balance Sheet Arrangements       In
addition to the unrecorded contractual obligations discussed and presented above, we have made certain arrangements as discussed below for which the timing of payment, if any ,  is unknown.   
  In connection with certain debt financing, we could be liable for early termination payments if certain unlikely events were to occur. At
January 31, 2012, the aggregate termination payment would have been $122 million. The arrangement pursuant to which this payment could be made will expire in fiscal 2019.   
         15   

The Company has future lease commitments for land and buildings for approximately 425 future locations.
These lease commitments have lease terms ranging from 4 to 50 years and provide for certain minimum rentals. If executed, payments under operating leases would increase by $92 million for fiscal 2013, based on current cost estimates.   
   Market Risk       In addition to the risks
inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and changes in currency exchange rates.   
  The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and
does not represent our view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may
magnify or negate other sensitivities.       Interest Rate Risk       We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt issuances. We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable
rate debt and entering into interest rate swaps.      The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to
changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and
weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date. The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates at
January 31, 2012.       
    As of January 31, 2012, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate
swaps, represented 17% of our total short-term and long-term debt. Based on January 31, 2012 and 2011 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $58 million
and $59 million, respectively.       Foreign Currency Risk       We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the United States. We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by
entering into currency swaps and designating certain long-term debt issued in foreign currencies as net investment hedges.      We hold currency
swaps to hedge the currency exchange component of our net investments and also to hedge the currency exchange rate fluctuation exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of non-U.S. denominated debt. The aggregate
fair value of these swaps was recorded as an asset of $313 million and $471 million at January 31, 2012   
         16   

and 2011, respectively. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate would have resulted in a loss or gain in the value of
the swaps of $67 million and $74 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect at January 31, 2012 and 2011 would have resulted in a
loss or gain in value of the swaps of $21 million and $7 million, respectively, on the value of the swaps.      In addition to currency swaps, we
have designated debt of approximately  3.0 billion as of January 31, 2012 and 2011 as a hedge of our net investment in the United Kingdom. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in value of the U.S.
dollar relative to the British pound would have resulted in a gain or loss, respectively, in the value of the debt of $430 million and $480 million, respectively. In addition, we have designated debt of approximately  275.0 billion and
 437.0 billion as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as a hedge of our net investment in Japan. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen
would have resulted in a gain or loss in the value of the debt of $328 million and $533 million, respectively.       Summary of Critical
Accounting Estimates       Management strives to report our financial results in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases
accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical terminology. In preparing the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles
require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements. These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future
outcomes. Actual results may differ from our estimates.      Management continually reviews our accounting policies, how they are applied and how
they are reported and disclosed in our financial statements. Following is a summary of our critical accounting estimates and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.        Inventories        We value inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined
primarily by the retail method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method for substantially all of the Walmart U.S. segment s merchandise inventories. The retail method of accounting results in inventory being valued
at the lower of cost or market since permanent markdowns are currently taken as a reduction of the retail value of inventory. The Sam s Club segment s merchandise is valued based on the weighted-average cost using the LIFO method.
Inventories for the Walmart International operations are primarily valued by the retail method of accounting and are stated using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method.      Under the retail method, inventory is stated at cost, which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to each merchandise grouping s retail value. The FIFO cost-to-retail ratio is based on the
initial margin of beginning inventory plus the fiscal year purchase activity. The cost-to-retail ratio for measuring any LIFO provision is based on the initial margin of the fiscal year purchase activity less the impact of any markdowns. The retail
method requires management to make certain judgments and estimates that may significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the amount of gross profit recognized. Judgments made include recording markdowns used to sell
inventory and shrinkage. When management determines the salability of inventory has diminished, markdowns for clearance activity and the related cost impact are recorded. Factors considered in the determination of markdowns include current and
anticipated demand, customer preferences and age of merchandise, as well as seasonal and fashion trends. Changes in weather patterns and customer preferences related to fashion trends could cause material changes in the amount and timing of
markdowns from year to year.      When necessary, we record a LIFO provision for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are
adjusted to actual results determined at year-end. Our LIFO provision is calculated based on inventory levels, markup rates and internally generated retail price indices. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, our inventories valued at LIFO approximated
those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.      We provide for estimated inventory losses ( shrinkage ) between physical
inventory counts on the basis of a percentage of sales. Following annual inventory counts, the provision is adjusted to reflect updated historical results.        Impairment of Assets        We evaluate long-lived assets other than goodwill and assets
with indefinite lives for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Management s judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market
conditions and operational performance, such as operating income and cash flows. The evaluation for long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally at the individual store level or, in certain
circumstances, at the market group level. The variability of these factors depends on a   
         17   

number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and changes in demographics. Thus, our accounting estimates may change from period to period. These factors could cause management
to conclude that impairment indicators exist and require impairment tests be performed, which could result in management determining the value of long-lived assets is impaired, resulting in a write-down of the long-lived assets.   
  Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the value of a certain asset may be impaired. This evaluation begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative goodwill impairment test is necessary. If we determine, based on the qualitative
factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required. This quantitative test for impairment requires management to make judgments
relating to future cash flows, growth rates, and economic and market conditions. These evaluations are based on determining the fair value of a reporting unit or asset using a valuation method such as discounted cash flow or a relative, market-based
approach. Historically, we have generated sufficient returns within the applicable reporting units to recover the cost of goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets. Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if
different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.        Income Taxes     
  Income taxes have a significant effect on our net earnings. As a global commercial enterprise, our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our
global mix of earnings, the extent to which those global earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States, legislation, acquisitions, dispositions and tax characteristics of our income. Our tax returns are routinely audited and
settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. Accordingly, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex
tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial
statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any
changes in the financial statements as appropriate. We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. This
determination requires the use of judgment in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.       Forward-Looking Statements
      This Annual Report contains statements that Walmart believes are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Those statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. Those forward-looking statements include statements in
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: under the captions  Company Performance Metrics  Growth    Net Sales   and  Results of Operations  Consolidated
Results of Operations   with respect to the volatility of currency exchange rates possibly continuing to affect Walmart s net sales in the future; under the caption  Results of Operations  Consolidated Results of
Operations   with respect to the volatility of currency exchange rates possibly continuing to affect Walmart s operating income in the future and with respect to Walmart s fiscal 2013 annual effective tax rate and the factors that
may impact that annual effective tax rate; under the caption  Results of Operations  Walmart International Segment   with respect to the volatility of currency exchange rates possibly continuing to affect our Walmart
International segment s operating results in the future; under the caption  Results of Operations  Sam s Club Segment   with respect to the volatility of fuel prices possibly continuing to affect our Sam s Club
segment s net sales and operating income in the future; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Equivalents and Working Capital ,   as well as in Note 1 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements,  regarding our ability to meet our liquidity needs through sources other than the cash we hold outside of the United States, our intention to permanently reinvest cash held outside of the United States, and our ability to repatriate
cash held outside of the United States; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows from Investing Activities   with respect to Walmart s expected capital expenditures in fiscal 2013; under the caption
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows from Investing Activities  Global Expansion Activities  with respect to Walmart s expectation that it will finance its fiscal 2013 global expansion plans primarily through
cash flows from operations and future debt financings, with respect to Walmart s projected capital expenditures in fiscal 2013, with respect to the projected growth in retail square feet in total and by operating segment in fiscal 2013, and
with respect to the projected allocation of capital expenditures for property and equipment by category in fiscal 2013; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows from Financing Activities  Dividends,  as
well as in Note 16 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  and under the caption  Walmart-Corporate and Stock Information-Dividends payable per share,  with respect to the payment of dividends in fiscal 2013,
Walmart s expected payment of dividends on certain dates in fiscal 2013, and the expected total amount of dividends to be paid in fiscal 2013; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Capital Resources   with
respect to Walmart s ability to finance seasonal build-ups in inventories and to meet other cash requirements with cash flows from operations and short-term borrowings, Walmart s ability to fund certain cash flow shortfalls by short-term
borrowings and long-term debt, Walmart s plan to refinance long-term debt as it matures, Walmart s anticipated funding of any shortfall in cash to pay dividends and make capital expenditures through short-term borrowings and long-term
debt, Walmart s plan to refinance existing long-term debt as it matures, the possibility that   
         18   

Walmart may obtain additional long-term financing for other corporate purposes, Walmart s ability to obtain financing from the commercial paper and long-term debt markets, the factors that
influence Walmart s ability to access those markets on favorable terms, and the factors that could adversely affect Walmart s ability to access those markets on favorable terms; and under the caption  Off Balance Sheet
Arrangements  with respect to the amount of increases in payments under operating leases if certain leases are executed.      These
forward-looking statements also include statements in: Note 3 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  regarding the weighted-average periods over which certain compensation cost is expected to be recognized; Note 10 in the
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  regarding the possible reduction of U.S. tax liability on accumulated but undistributed earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, the realization of certain deferred tax assets, possible reduction
of unrecognized tax benefits, and the reasons for such reductions and the magnitude of their impact on our results of operations and financial condition; and the effect of the adverse resolutions of certain other tax matters; Note 11 in the
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  regarding an adverse decision in, or settlement of, certain litigation or other legal proceedings to which Walmart is a party or is subject possibly resulting in liability material to our
financial condition or results of operations; and Note 14 in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  with respect to Walmart s expected completion of a certain acquisition in the future after certain conditions are satisfied.
The letter of our President and Chief Executive Officer appearing in this Annual Report includes forward-looking statements that relate to management s expectation that the Walmart International segment s  Powered by Walmart 
initiatives will strengthen productivity and reduce expenses, management s expectation that growing the Sam s Club segment s membership base will remain a key goal for fiscal 2013, and management s plans to increase
Walmart s investment in Yihaodian to 51 percent in fiscal 2013 and to continue Walmart s investments to leverage additional opportunities in e-commerce. Forward-looking statements appear in this Annual Report: under the caption
 Walmart International-Our Strategy: Meeting local needs and leveraging global resources  regarding Walmart s intention to be the low cost leader in every market where our Walmart International segment operates and management s
expectation that our Walmart International segment will add between 30 million and 33 million square feet of retail space in fiscal 2013; under the caption  Sam s Club-Our Strategy: Leveraging Member insights to deliver value and
quality  regarding the plans of our Sam s Club segment to open nine new clubs and relocate or expand six other clubs in fiscal 2013; under the caption  Global eCommerce-Our Strategy: Winning in Global eCommerce  regarding
Walmart s goal of combining online, social and mobile innovations with physical stores to give customers a multi-channel shopping experience and management s expectation that Walmart s acquisition of a majority stake in Yihaodian will
open Walmart s products and brands to consumers in China; and under the caption  Walmart-2012 Financial Report  regarding management s plan to further strengthen Walmart s price position by leveraging expenses as a
percentage of sales by an additional 100 basis points over the next five years and management s expectation that Walmart will execute disciplined growth while incorporating new initiatives to design and build the most cost effective stores in
the world. The forward-looking statements described above are identified by the use in such statements of one or more of the words or phrases  anticipate,   could be,   could reduce,   estimated, 
 expansion,   expect,   goal,   grow,   intend,   is expected,   may continue,   may impact,   may result,   plan,   plans, 
 projected,   will add,   will be,   will be paid,   will depend,   will execute,   will open,   will   reduce,   will strengthen,   would be, 
and  would increase,  and other similar words or phrases. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals, or targets are also forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, expected growth,
future revenues, future cash flows, future capital expenditures, future performance, future initiatives and the anticipation and expectations of Walmart and its management as to future occurrences and trends.   
  The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report and that we make elsewhere are subject to certain factors, in the United States and
internationally, which could materially affect our financial performance, our financial condition, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share, comparable store sales, or comparable club sales for any period, our liquidity,
our effective tax rate for any period, and our business operations, business strategy, plans, goals, or objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the economy of the United States or
other specific markets in which we operate, economic instability, changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, economic crises and disruptions in the
financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment and partial employment levels, employment conditions within our markets, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of
consumer disposable income, consumer confidence, consumer credit availability, consumer spending patterns. consumer debt levels, inflation, deflation, commodity prices, the cost of the goods we sell, competitive pressures, the seasonality of our
business, seasonal buying patterns in the United States and our other markets, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the selling prices of fuel, the cost of healthcare and other benefits,
accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, availability of qualified labor pools in the
specific markets in which we operate, zoning, land use and other regulatory restrictions, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather conditions and events, catastrophic events and natural disasters, as well as storm and other damage to
our stores, clubs, distribution centers, and other facilities, and store closings and other limitations on our customer  access to our stores and clubs resulting from such events and disasters, disruption in our supply chain, including
availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor, and other laws and regulations that affect our business, including changes in
corporate tax rates, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the resolution of tax matters, developments in and the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are a party or are subject, currency exchange rate fluctuations and
volatility, fluctuations in market rates of interest, and other conditions and events affecting domestic and global financial and capital markets, and economic and geopolitical conditions and events, including civil unrest and disturbances,
  
         19   

public health emergencies, and terrorist attacks. Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in our fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying
patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our business operations and financial performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect
our business operations and financial performance. We discuss certain of these matters more fully, as well as certain risk factors that may affect our business operations, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in other of our
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, with the SEC on March 27, 2012. The
forward-looking statements described above are made based on knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made. However, because of
the factors described and listed above, as well as other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized, or other circumstances, actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these
forward-looking statements. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences
for us or affect us, our business, our operations, or our financial performance in the way we expect. You are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties, and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements and not to
place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect
subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by applicable law.         
         20   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
    Consolidated Statements of Income    

See accompanying notes.    
         21   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
    Consolidated Balance Sheets    

See accompanying notes.    
         22   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity    

See accompanying notes.    
         23   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
    Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    

See accompanying notes.    
         24   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

See accompanying notes.    
         25   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
    Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
     General     
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart  or the  Company ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world, aggregated into three
reportable segments: the Walmart U.S. segment; the Walmart International segment; and the Sam s Club segment. Walmart is committed to saving people money so they can live better. Walmart earns the trust of its customers everyday by providing a
broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ( EDLP ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is the Company s pricing philosophy under which it
prices items at a low price every day so its customers trust that its prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.   
    Principles of Consolidation        The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Walmart and its subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which are 50% or less owned
and do not meet the consolidation criteria of Topic 810 of the Financial Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ), are accounted for using the equity method. These investments are immaterial to the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements.      The Company s operations in the United States ( U.S. ) and Canada are consolidated using a January 31 fiscal
year-end. The Company s operations in 12 countries in Africa, Argentina, Brazil, 5 countries in Central America, Chile, China, India, Japan, Mexico and the United Kingdom are consolidated using a December 31 fiscal year-end, generally due
to statutory reporting requirements. There were no significant intervening events during January 2012 which materially affected the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Use of Estimates        The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Those principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Management s estimates and
assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.
       Cash and Cash Equivalents        The Company considers investments with a maturity when purchased of three months or less to be cash equivalents. All credit card, debit card and electronic benefits transfer transactions that process in
less than seven days are classified as cash and cash equivalents. The amounts due from banks for these transactions classified as cash totaled $1.2 billion at January 31, 2012 and 2011. In addition, cash and cash equivalents includes restricted
cash primarily related to cash collateral holdings from various counterparties, as required by certain derivative and trust agreements, of $547 million and $504 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
  The Company s cash balances are held in various locations around the world. Of the Company s $6.6 billion and $7.4 billion of cash and cash
equivalents at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, $5.6 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively, were held outside of the U.S. and are generally utilized to support liquidity needs in the Company s foreign operations.   
  The Company employs financing strategies in an effort to ensure that cash can be made available in the country in which it is needed with the minimum
cost possible. The Company does not believe it will be necessary to repatriate cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. and anticipates its domestic liquidity needs will be met through other funding sources (ongoing cash flows generated
from operations, external borrowings, or both). Accordingly, the Company intends, with only certain limited exceptions, to continue to permanently reinvest the cash in its foreign operations. Were the Company s intention to change, most of the
amounts held within the Company s foreign operations could be repatriated to the U.S., although any repatriations under current U.S. tax laws would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. As of
January 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately $768 million and $691 million, respectively, may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to local laws or other restrictions. The Company does not expect local laws, other limitations or potential
taxes on anticipated future repatriations of amounts held outside of the United States to have a material effect on its overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.   
         26   

Receivables        Receivables are stated at their carrying values, net of a reserve for doubtful accounts. Receivables consist primarily of amounts due from:   

insurance companies resulting from pharmacy sales;      

banks for customer credit card, debit card and electronic bank transfers that take in excess of seven days to process;      

suppliers for marketing or incentive programs;      

consumer financing programs in certain international subsidiaries; and      

real estate transactions.      
  The Company establishes a reserve for doubtful accounts based on historical trends in collection of past due amounts and write-off history. The total
reserve for doubtful accounts was $323 million and $252 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Walmart International offers
a limited amount of consumer credit products, primarily through its financial institution operations in Chile, Canada and Mexico. The balance of these receivables was $1,049 million, net of a reserve for doubtful accounts of $63 million at
January 31, 2012, compared to a receivable balance of $673 million, net of a reserve for doubtful accounts of $83 million at January 31, 2011. These balances are included in receivables, net in the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheets.        Inventories     
  The Company values inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out
( LIFO ) method for substantially all of the Walmart U.S. segment s merchandise inventories. The retail method of accounting results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market since permanent markdowns are currently
taken as a reduction of the retail value of inventory. The Sam s Club segment s merchandise is valued based on the weighted-average cost using the LIFO method. Inventories for the Walmart International operations are primarily valued by
the retail method of accounting and are stated using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company s inventories valued at LIFO approximate those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.
       Property and Equipment     
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Gains or losses on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred. Costs of major improvements are
capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. The following detail of property and equipment includes estimated useful lives which are generally used to depreciate the assets on a straight-line basis:
      
    Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining
expected lease term. Depreciation expense, including amortization of property under capital leases, for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $8.1 billion, $7.6 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively. Interest costs capitalized on construction projects
were $60 million, $63 million and $85 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Long-Lived Assets     
  Long-lived assets are stated at cost. Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest   
         27   

level of identifiable cash flows, which is at the individual store or club level or, in certain circumstances, a market group of stores. Undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the
related assets are estimated over the assets  useful lives based on updated projections. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable, any potential impairment is measured based upon the fair value
of the related asset or asset group as determined by an appropriate market appraisal or other valuation technique.        Goodwill and Other
Acquired Intangible Assets        Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business
combinations and is allocated to the appropriate reporting unit when acquired. Other acquired intangible assets are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized; rather, they are evaluated for impairment annually during the Company s fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset
may be impaired. Definite-lived intangible assets are considered long-lived assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the periods that expected economic benefits will be provided.   
  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative goodwill impairment test is
necessary. If the Company determines, based on the qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required. This quantitative
test for goodwill impairment is performed by determining the fair value of the related reporting units. Fair value is measured based on the discounted cash flow method and relative market-based approaches. Based on the results of the qualitative
assessments performed, the Company determined that the fair value of each reporting unit is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount and, as a result, quantitative analyses were not required. The Company has not recorded any impairment
charges related to goodwill.      The following table reflects goodwill activity, by reportable segment, for fiscal 2012 and 2011:   
   
    In April 2011 and June 2011, the Company completed acquisitions of 147 Netto stores from Dansk Supermarked in the United
Kingdom and a 51% ownership in Massmart, a South African retailer, respectively. In these transactions, the Company acquired approximately $748 million and $3.5 billion in goodwill, respectively. Refer to Note 14 for more information on the
Company s acquisitions.      Indefinite-lived intangible assets are included in other assets and deferred charges in the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets. These assets are evaluated for impairment based on their fair values using valuation techniques which are updated annually based on the most recent variables and assumptions. There were no impairment charges related to
indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010.        Self-Insurance Reserves     
  The Company uses a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including, but not limited to, workers 
compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, property and the Company s obligation for employee-related health care benefits. Liabilities relating to these claims associated with these risks are estimated by considering historical claims
experience, including frequency, severity, demographic factors, and other actuarial assumptions, including incurred but not reported claims. In estimating its liability for such claims, the Company periodically analyzes its historical trends,
including loss development, and applies appropriate loss development factors to the incurred costs associated with the claims. The Company also maintains stop-loss insurance coverage for workers  compensation and general liability of $5 million
and $15 million, respectively, per occurrence to limit exposure to certain risks. See Note 6 for more information.   
         28   

Income Taxes        Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets
to the amounts more likely than not to be realized.      The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain
tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Company records interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively, in the
Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.        Revenue Recognition        
   Sales       The Company recognizes sales
revenue net of sales taxes and estimated sales returns at the time it sells merchandise to the customer.       Shopping Cards    
  Customer purchases of shopping cards are not recognized as revenue until the card is redeemed and the customer purchases merchandise using the shopping
card. Shopping cards in the U.S. do not carry an expiration date and, therefore, customers and members can redeem their shopping cards for merchandise indefinitely. Shopping cards in certain foreign countries where the Company does business may have
expiration dates. A certain amount of shopping cards, both with and without expiration dates, will not be redeemed. The Company estimates unredeemed shopping cards and recognizes revenue for these amounts over shopping card historical usage periods
based on historical redemption rates. The Company periodically reviews and updates its estimates of usage periods and redemption rates.   
   Financial and Other Services       The
Company recognizes revenue from financial and other service transactions at the time the service is performed. Generally, revenue from services is classified as a component of net sales in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.
      Membership Fee       The Company
recognizes membership fee revenue both in the United States and internationally over the term of the membership, which is 12 months. The following table summarizes membership fee activity for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
   
    Membership fee revenue is included in membership and other income in the Company s Consolidated Statements of
Income. The deferred membership fee is included in accrued liabilities in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.        Cost of Sales
       Cost of sales includes actual product cost, the cost of transportation to the Company s warehouses, stores and clubs from
suppliers, the cost of transportation from the Company s warehouses to the stores, clubs and customers and the cost of warehousing for its Sam s Club segment and import distribution centers.   
    Payments from Suppliers        Walmart
receives consideration from suppliers for various programs, primarily volume incentives, warehouse allowances and reimbursements for specific programs such as markdowns, margin protection, advertising and supplier-specific fixtures. Substantially
all payments from suppliers are accounted for as a reduction of cost of sales and are recognized in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income when the related inventory is sold.   
         29   

Operating, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses     
  Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses include all operating costs of the Company, except cost of sales, as described above. As a result,
the majority of the cost of warehousing and occupancy for the Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments  distribution facilities is included in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses. Because the Company does not include
most of the cost of its Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments  distribution facilities in cost of sales, its gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales ( gross profit margin ) may not be comparable to those
of other retailers that may include all costs related to their distribution facilities in cost of sales and in the calculation of gross profit.   
    Advertising Costs        Advertising
costs are expensed as incurred and were $2.3 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Advertising costs consist primarily of print, television and digital advertisements and are recorded in operating,
selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. Advertising reimbursements received from suppliers are generally accounted for as a reduction of cost of sales and recognized in the Company s
Consolidated Statements of Income when the related inventory is sold. When advertising reimbursements are directly related to specific advertising activities and meet the criteria in ASC Topic 605, they are recognized as a reduction of advertising
expenses in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses.        Leases     
  The Company estimates the expected term of a lease by assuming the exercise of renewal options where an economic penalty exists that would preclude the
abandonment of the lease at the end of the initial non-cancelable term and the exercise of such renewal is at the sole discretion of the Company. The expected term is used in the determination of whether a store or club lease is a capital or
operating lease and in the calculation of straight-line rent expense. Additionally, the useful life of leasehold improvements is limited by the expected lease term or the economic life of the asset, whichever is shorter. If significant expenditures
are made for leasehold improvements late in the expected term of a lease and renewal is reasonably assured, the useful life of the leasehold improvement is limited to the end of the renewal period or economic life of the asset, whichever is shorter.
     Rent abatements and escalations are considered in the calculation of minimum lease payments in the Company s capital lease tests and in
determining straight-line rent expense for operating leases.        Pre-Opening Costs     
  The costs of start-up activities, including organization costs, related to new store openings, store remodels, expansions and relocations are expensed as
incurred and included in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. Pre-opening costs totaled $308 million, $320 million and $227 million for the fiscal years ended
January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Currency Translation     
  The assets and liabilities of all international subsidiaries are translated from the respective local currency to the U.S. dollar using exchange rates at
the balance sheet date. Related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The income statements of international subsidiaries are translated from the respective local currencies to the U.S.
dollar using average exchange rates for the period covered by the income statements.        Reclassifications     
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior fiscal year amounts or balances to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. These
reclassifications did not impact consolidated operating income or net income. Additionally, certain segment asset and expense allocations have been reclassified among segments in the current period. See Note 15 for further detail.   
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements     
  In 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued two Accounting Standards Updates ( ASU ) which amend guidance for
the presentation of comprehensive income. The amended guidance requires an entity to present components of net income and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income, or
  
         30   

in two separate, but consecutive statements. The current option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of shareholders  equity will be eliminated. Although
the new guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive income, there are no changes to the components that are recognized in net income or other comprehensive income under existing guidance. These ASUs are effective for the Company in the first
quarter of fiscal 2013 and retrospective application will be required. These ASUs will change the Company s financial statement presentation of comprehensive income but will not impact the Company s net income, financial position or cash
flows.      In 2011, the FASB issued an ASU, which is intended to reduce complexity and costs by allowing an entity the option to make a
qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether it should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. The ASU also expands upon the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider between
annual impairment tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The ASU is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, with early adoption
permitted. The Company early adopted the provisions of the ASU in fiscal 2012 for its fiscal 2012 goodwill impairment test.   
    Note 2. Net Income Per Common Share    
   Basic income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart is based on the weighted-average common shares
outstanding. Diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart is based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock options and other share-based awards. The
Company had approximately 1 million, 4 million and 5 million stock options outstanding at January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which were not included in the diluted income per common share from continuing operations
attributable to Walmart calculation because their effect would be antidilutive.      The following table provides a reconciliation of the
numerators and denominators used to determine basic and diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart:       
 
    Note 3. Shareholders  Equity    
     Share-Based Compensation        The Company has awarded share-based compensation to associates and nonemployee directors of the Company. The compensation expense recognized for all plans was $355 million, $371 million and $335 million
for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Share-based compensation expense is included in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. The total income tax benefit recognized
for share-based compensation was $134 million, $141 million and $126 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table summarizes the Company s share-based compensation expense by award type:   
         31   

The Company s shareholder-approved Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 (the  Plan ) became effective June 4,
2010 and amended and restated the Company s Stock Incentive Plan of 2005. The Plan was established to grant stock options, restricted (non-vested) stock, performance shares and other equity compensation awards for which 210 million shares
of common stock issued or to be issued under the Plan have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company believes that such awards serve to align the interests of its associates with those of its shareholders.   
  The Plan s award types are summarized as follows:       

Restricted stock grants are awards for shares that vest based on the passage of time, achievement of performance criteria, or both. Performance share
awards vest based on the passage of time and achievement of performance criteria and may range from 0% to 150% of the original award amount. Vesting periods for both awards are generally between three and five years. Awards granted before
January 1, 2008 may be settled in stock or deferred as stock or cash, based upon the recipient s election. Consequently, these awards are included in accrued liabilities and deferred income taxes and other in the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheets, unless the recipient elected for the award to be settled or deferred in stock. The fair value of the restricted stock and performance share liabilities is remeasured each reporting period and the total liability for
these awards at January 31, 2012 and 2011 was $16 million and $12 million, respectively. Restricted stock awards and performance share awards issued in fiscal 2009 and thereafter, may be settled or deferred in stock and are accounted for as
equity in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of these awards is determined on the date of grant using the Company s stock price discounted for the expected dividend yield through the vesting period and is recognized
ratably over the vesting period.          

Restricted stock rights provide rights to Company stock after a specified service period. For restricted stock rights issued in fiscal 2009 and
thereafter, 50% vest three years from the grant date and the remaining 50% vesting five years from the grant date. The fair value of each restricted stock right is determined on the date of grant using the stock price discounted for the expected
dividend yield through the vesting period and is recognized ratably over the vesting period. The expected dividend yield is based on the anticipated dividends over the vesting period. The weighted-average discount for the dividend yield used to
determine the fair value of restricted stock rights granted in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 11.7%, 9.1% and 8.5%, respectively.          

Stock options allow the associate to buy a specified number of shares at a set price. Options granted generally vest over five years and have a
contractual term of ten years. Options may include restrictions related to employment, satisfaction of performance conditions or other conditions. Under the Plan and prior plans, substantially all stock options have been granted with an exercise
price equal to the market price of the Company s stock at the date of grant.         In addition to the Plan, the
Company s subsidiary in the United Kingdom, ASDA, has two other stock option plans for certain ASDA colleagues. A combined 49 million shares of the Company s common stock were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
for issuance upon the exercise of stock options granted under the Colleague Share Ownership Plan 1999 (the  CSOP ) and the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000 ( Sharesave Plan ).   

The CSOP grants have either a three- or six-year vesting period. The CSOP options may be exercised during the two months immediately following the
vesting date.          

The Sharesave Plan grants options at 80% of the Company s average stock price for the three days preceding the grant date. The Sharesave Plan
options vest after three years and may generally be exercised up to six months after the vesting date.      
         32   

The following table shows the activity for each award type during fiscal 2012:   

As of January 31, 2012, the unrecognized compensation cost for restricted stock and performance share awards, restricted stock rights and stock option awards was $356 million, $427 million, and $23
million, respectively, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years, 2.0 years and 1.0 years, respectively. Additionally, as of January 31, 2012, the weighted-average remaining life for stock options outstanding
and stock options exercisable was 4.3 years and 2.9 years, respectively, and the stock options had an aggregate intrinsic value of $265 million and $148 million, respectively.      The following table includes additional information related to the restricted stock and performance share awards and the restricted stock rights:  
   
    The following table includes additional information related to stock option awards:  
   
    The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option
valuation model that uses various assumptions for inputs. The Company uses expected volatilities and risk-free interest rates that correlate with the expected term of the option when estimating an option s fair value. The following table
provides the weighted-average assumptions used to estimate the fair values of the Company s stock options granted in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010:       

(1)      
    Expected dividend yield is based on the anticipated dividends over the vesting period.      

(2)      
    Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company s stock.      

(3)      
    Risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of the grant.      

(4)      
    Expected life in years is based on historical exercise and expiration activity of grants with similar vesting periods.      
         33   

Share Repurchase Program        From time to time, the Company has repurchased shares of its common stock under share repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors. The current share repurchase program has no expiration date
or other restriction limiting the period over which the Company can make share repurchases. At January 31, 2012, authorization for $11.3 billion of additional share repurchases remained under the current share repurchase program. Any
repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status.      The Company considers several factors in determining when
to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings and the market price of its common stock. Cash paid for share repurchases during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 was as follows:

Note 4. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)    
   The following table provides the changes in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for fiscal 2012, 2011 and
2010:       
    Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recorded net of their related income tax effects.
The Company s unrealized net gains and losses on net investment hedges, included in the currency translation and other account of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), were not significant as of January 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company
reclassified $(86) million and $(14) million, respectively, in fiscal 2012 and 2011 from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings to offset the impact of currency translation on the re-measurement of non-U.S. denominated debt.
  
    Note 5. Restructuring Charges    
   In fiscal 2010, the Company announced several organizational changes, including the closure of 10 Sam s Clubs, designed to
strengthen and streamline its operations. As a result, the Company recorded $260 million in pre-tax restructuring charges in fiscal 2010 as follows:   
         34   

The asset impairment charges generally relate to the real estate of the Sam s Club closures, which was written down
to their estimated fair value of $46 million. The fair value was determined based on comparable market values of similar properties or on a rental income approach, using Level 2 inputs of the three-tier fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 8.
     The pre-tax restructuring charges of $260 million are classified in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in the
Company s Consolidated Statement of Income for fiscal 2010. At January 31, 2010, the Company had $127 million of severance costs included in accrued liabilities in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. These severance costs were
paid during fiscal 2011.   
    Note 6. Accrued Liabilities    
   The Company s accrued liabilities consist of the following:   

(1)      
    Accrued wages and benefits include accrued wages, salaries, vacation, bonuses and other incentive plans.      

(2)      
    Self-insurance consists of all insurance-related liabilities, such as workers  compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, property and
employee-related health care benefits.      

(3)      
    Other accrued liabilities consist of various items such as accrued taxes, maintenance, utilities, advertising and interest.
     
    Note 7. Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt    
   Information on the Company s short-term borrowings and interest rates is as follows:  
   
    Short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper and lines of credit. Short-term borrowings outstanding at
January 31, 2012 and 2011 were $4.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.      The Company has certain lines of credit totaling $18.5
billion, most of which were undrawn, as of January 31, 2012 and is committed with 26 financial institutions. In conjunction with these lines of credit, the Company has agreed to observe certain covenants, the most restrictive of which relates
to maximum amounts of secured debt and long-term leases. Committed lines of credit are primarily used to support commercial paper and remained undrawn as of January 31, 2012. The committed lines of credit mature at various times between June
2012 and June 2016, carry interest rates generally ranging between LIBOR plus 10 basis points and LIBOR plus 75 basis points, and incur commitment fees ranging between 1.5 and 10.0 basis points.   
  In June 2011, the Company renewed and extended its existing 364-day revolving credit facility (the  364-day Facility ) and its five-year credit
facility (the  5-year Facility ), both of which are used to support its commercial paper program. The size of the 364-day Facility was increased from $9.0 billion to $10.0 billion, while the 5-year Facility was increased from $4.3 billion
to $6.3 billion. Fiscal 2012 undrawn and drawn fees remained relatively flat from fiscal 2011. The 364-day Facility and the 5-year Facility remained undrawn as of January 31, 2012.   
         35   

The Company had trade letters of credit outstanding totaling $2.9 billion and $2.6 billion at
January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had stand-by letters of credit outstanding totaling $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The Company renewed the stand-by letter of credit
facilities in June 2011, which is used to support various potential and actual obligations.      The Company s long-term debt consists of the
following:       

(1)   
        The average rate
represents the weighted-average stated rate for each corresponding debt category, based on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest rates. Interest costs are also impacted by certain derivative financial instruments described in Note
9.      

(2)   
        A portion of other
debt includes secured debt in the amount of $319 million, which is collateralized by property with an aggregate carrying amount of approximately $866 million.         The Company has $500 million in debt with embedded put options. The issuance of money market puttable reset securities in the amount of $500 million is structured to be remarketed in connection with the
annual reset of the interest rate. If, for any reason, the remarketing of the notes does not occur at the time of any interest rate reset, the holders of the notes must sell, and the Company must repurchase, the notes at par. This issuance has been
classified as long-term debt due within one year in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Annual maturities of long-term debt during the next five years and thereafter are as follows:   
         36   

Debt Issuances        Information on significant long-term debt issued during fiscal 2012 is as follows (amounts in millions):      
    The aggregate net proceeds from these note issuances were approximately $4.9 billion. The notes of each series require
semi-annual interest payments on April 15 and October 15 of each year, with the first interest payment having commenced on October 15, 2011. Unless previously purchased and canceled, the Company will repay the notes of each series at
100% of the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, at maturity. The notes of each series are senior, unsecured obligations of the Company.   
    Note 8. Fair Value Measurements    
   The Company records and discloses certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities at their fair value. The fair value of an
asset is the price at which the asset could be sold in an orderly transaction between unrelated, knowledgeable and willing parties able to engage in the transaction. A liability s fair value is defined as the amount that would be paid to
transfer the liability to a new obligor in a transaction between such parties, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor.      Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured using a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include:   

Level 1 - observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets;      

Level 2 - inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and      

Level 3 - unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring the Company to develop its own assumptions.
        The disclosure of fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at cost is as follows:   
   Cash and cash equivalents:  The carrying value approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.   
   Short-term debt:  The carrying value approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.   
   Long-term debt:  The fair value is based on the Company s current incremental borrowing rate for similar types of borrowing
arrangements or, where applicable, quoted market prices. The carrying value and fair value of the Company s debt as of January 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:   
   
    Additionally, as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company held certain derivative asset and liability positions
that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The majority of the Company s derivative instruments relate to   
         37   

interest rate swaps. The fair values of these interest rate swaps have been measured in accordance with Level 2 inputs of the fair value hierarchy, using the income approach. These inputs include
the relevant interest rate and foreign currency forward curves. As of January 31, 2012 and 2011, the notional amounts and fair values of these interest rate swaps are as follows (asset/(liability)):  
   
    The fair values above are the estimated amounts the Company would receive or pay upon a termination of the agreements
relating to such instruments as of the reporting dates.   
    Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments    
   The Company uses derivative financial instruments for hedging and non-trading purposes to manage its exposure to changes in interest
and currency exchange rates, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt. Use of derivative financial instruments in hedging programs subjects the Company to certain risks, such as market and credit risks. Market risk
represents the possibility that the value of the derivative instrument will change. In a hedging relationship, the change in the value of the derivative is offset to a great extent by the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. Credit
risk related to derivatives represents the possibility that the counterparty will not fulfill the terms of the contract. The notional, or contractual amount of the Company s derivative financial instruments, is used to measure interest to be
paid or received and does not represent the Company s exposure due to credit risk. Credit risk is monitored through established approval procedures, including setting concentration limits by counterparty, reviewing credit ratings and requiring
collateral (generally cash) from the counterparty when appropriate. The Company s transactions are with counterparties rated  A-  or better by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. In connection with various derivative
agreements with counterparties, the Company held cash collateral from these counterparties of $387 million and $344 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company s policy is to record cash collateral exclusive of any
derivative asset, and any collateral holdings are reflected in the Company s accrued liabilities as amounts due to the counterparties. Furthermore, as part of the master netting arrangements with these counterparties, the Company is also
required to post collateral if the derivative liability position exceeds $150 million. The Company has no outstanding collateral postings; and in the event of providing cash collateral, the Company would record the posting as a receivable exclusive
of any derivative liability.      When the Company uses derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging its exposure to interest and
currency exchange rates, the contract terms of a hedged instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item, providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. Contracts that are effective at meeting the risk reduction and correlation
criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. If a derivative instrument is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument are either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets,
liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of an instrument s change in fair value is immediately
recognized in earnings during the period. Instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, or contracts for which the Company has not elected hedge accounting, are valued at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported in
earnings during the period of change.        Fair Value Instruments        The Company is party to receive fixed-rate, pay floating-rate interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of fixed-rate debt. The notional amounts are used to measure interest to be paid or received and
do not represent the exposure due to credit loss. The Company s interest rate swaps that receive fixed-interest rate payments and pay floating-interest rate payments are designated as fair value hedges. As the specific terms and notional
amounts of the derivative instruments match those of the instruments being hedged, the derivative instruments were assumed to be perfectly effective hedges and all changes in fair value of the hedges were recorded in long-term debt and accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets with no net impact in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income. These fair value instruments will mature on various dates ranging from April 2012 to May
2014.   
         38   

Net Investment Instruments        The Company is party to cross-currency interest rate swaps that hedge its net investments, as well as its currency exchange rate fluctuation exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal
and interest of non-U.S. denominated debt. The agreements are contracts to exchange fixed-rate payments in one currency for fixed-rate payments in another currency. All changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), offsetting the currency translation adjustment that is also recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These instruments will mature on dates ranging from October 2023 to February 2030.   
  The Company has outstanding debt of approximately  3.0 billion as of January 31, 2012 and 2011 that is designated as a hedge of the
Company s net investment in the United Kingdom. The Company also has outstanding debt of approximately  275.0 billion and  437.0 billion as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, that is designated as a hedge of the
Company s net investment in Japan. Any translation of non-U.S.-denominated debt is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), offsetting the currency translation adjustment that is also recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). These instruments will mature on dates ranging from January 2013 to January 2039.        Cash Flow Instruments
       The Company is party to receive floating-rate, pay fixed-rate interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk of certain
non-U.S.-denominated debt. The swaps are designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk. Amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to derivatives are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) to earnings as interest payments are made on the Company s variable-rate debt, converting the floating-rate interest expense into fixed-rate interest expense. These cash flow instruments will mature on dates ranging from August 2013 to
July 2015.      The Company is also party to receive fixed-rate, pay fixed-rate cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency exposure
associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of non-U.S.-denominated debt. The swaps are designated as cash flow hedges of the currency risk related to payments on the non-U.S.-denominated debt. The effective portion of changes
in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of foreign exchange risk is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects
earnings. The hedged items are recognized foreign-currency denominated liabilities that are remeasured at spot exchange rates each period, and the assessment of effectiveness (and measurement of any ineffectiveness) is based on total changes in the
derivative s cash flows. As a result, the amount reclassified into earnings each period includes an amount that offsets the related transaction gain or loss arising from that remeasurement and the adjustment to earnings for the period s
allocable portion of the initial spot-forward difference associated with the hedging instrument. These cash flow instruments will mature on dates ranging from September 2029 to March 2034. Any ineffectiveness with these instruments has been and is
expected to be immaterial.        Financial Statement Presentation        Hedging instruments with an unrealized gain are recorded in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets as either a current or a non-current asset, based on maturity date, and those hedging instruments
with an unrealized loss are recorded as either a current or a non-current liability, based on maturity date.      As of January 31, 2012 and
2011, the Company s financial instruments were classified as follows in its Consolidated Balance Sheets:       
 
         39   

Note 10. Taxes    
    Income from Continuing Operations       The components of income from continuing operations before income taxes are as follows:       
    A summary of the provision for income taxes is as follows:   
   
     Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation       The Company s effective income tax rate is typically lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of benefits from lower-taxed global operations, including the use of global funding
structures and certain U.S. tax credits. The Company s non-U.S. income is subject to local country tax rates that are below the 35% U.S. statutory rate. Certain non-U.S. earnings have been indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and are not
subject to current U.S. income tax. A reconciliation of the significant differences between the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective income tax rate on pretax income from continuing operations is as follows:   

40   

Deferred Taxes       The significant components of the Company s deferred tax account balances are as follows:       
    The deferred taxes noted above are classified as follows in the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheets:       
     Unremitted Earnings       United States income taxes have not been provided on accumulated but undistributed earnings of the Company s international subsidiaries of approximately $19.7 billion and $17.0 billion as of
January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest these amounts outside of the United States. However, if any portion were to be distributed, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by foreign income
taxes paid on those earnings. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these undistributed earnings is not practicable because of the complexities with its hypothetical calculation. Deferred or current taxes are and have
been provided for earnings of international subsidiaries and associated companies when the Company plans to remit those earnings.       Net
Operating Losses, Tax Credit Carryforwards and Valuation Allowances       At January 31, 2012, the Company had net operating loss and
capital loss carryforwards totaling approximately $5.3 billion. Of these carryforwards, approximately $3.4 billion will expire, if not utilized, in various years through 2022. The remaining carryforwards have no expiration. At January 31, 2012,
the Company had foreign tax credit carryforwards of $1.2 billion, which will expire in various years through 2022, if not utilized.      As of
January 31, 2012, the Company has provided a valuation allowance of approximately $2.5 billion on deferred tax assets associated primarily with net operating loss carryforwards for which management has determined it is more likely than not that
the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The $371 million net change in the valuation allowance during fiscal 2012 related to releases arising from the use of net operating and capital loss carryforwards, releases due to changes in judgment
regarding the future ability to use net operating and capital loss carryforwards, increases from certain net operating losses arising in fiscal   
         41   

2012, decreases due to operating and capital loss expirations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Management believes that it is more likely than not that the remaining net deferred tax
assets will be fully realized.       Uncertain Tax Positions       The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax positions will
withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.      As of January 31, 2012 and 2011, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits related
to continuing operations was $611 million and $795 million, respectively, of which, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the Company s effective tax rate is $520 million and $687 million for January 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.      A reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits from continuing operations is as follows:   
   
    The Company classifies interest and penalties related to uncertain tax benefits as interest expense and as operating,
selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized interest and penalty (benefit) expense related to uncertain tax positions of $(19) million, $45 million and $88 million,
respectively. At January 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions of $166 million and $205 million, respectively, and $0 million and $2 million of accrued penalties, respectively.   
  During the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could reduce unrecognized tax benefits by between $15 million and $43
million, either because the tax positions are sustained on audit or because the Company agrees to their disallowance. The Company does not expect any change to have a significant impact in its Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The Company remains subject to income tax examinations for its U.S. federal income taxes generally for fiscal 2009 through 2012. The Company also remains
subject to income tax examinations for international income taxes for fiscal 2003 through 2012, and for U.S. state and local income taxes generally for fiscal 2006 through 2012.       Discontinued Operations       At January 31, 2010, the Company had an unrecognized tax
benefit of $1.7 billion related to an ordinary worthless stock deduction from the fiscal 2007 disposition of its German operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, this matter was effectively settled with the Internal Revenue Service,
which resulted in the reclassification of the deduction as an ordinary loss, a capital loss that the Company has fully offset with a valuation allowance, and a reduction in the accumulated but undistributed earnings of an international subsidiary.
In connection with this settlement, the Company recorded a $1.0 billion tax benefit in discontinued operations in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income (see Note 14) and a reduction of its accrued income tax liability in the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 31, 2011. In addition, during fiscal 2012, tax and related interest expense of $67 million was recorded to discontinued operations related to audit adjustments and amended returns from this
settlement for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes.       Other Taxes       Additionally, the Company is subject to tax examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other non-income taxes. A number of these examinations are ongoing and, in certain cases, have resulted
in assessments from the taxing authorities. Where appropriate, the Company has made accruals for these matters, which are reflected in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. While these matters are individually immaterial, a group of
related matters, if decided adversely to the Company, may result in a liability material to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         42   

Note 11. Legal Proceedings    
   The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings. The Company has made accruals with respect to these matters, where
appropriate, which are reflected in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. For some matters, the amount of liability is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated and therefore accruals have not been made. However,
where a liability is reasonably possible and material, such matters have been disclosed. The Company may enter into discussions regarding settlement of these matters, and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best
interest of the Company s shareholders. The matters, or groups of related matters, discussed below, if decided adversely to or settled by the Company, individually or in the aggregate, may result in a liability material to the Company s
financial condition or results of operations.       Wage-and-Hour Class Action:  The Company is a defendant in  Braun/Hummel v. Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. , a class action lawsuit commenced in March 2002 in the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The plaintiffs allege that the Company failed to pay class members for all hours worked and prevented class members from
taking their full meal and rest breaks. On October 13, 2006, a jury awarded back-pay damages to the plaintiffs of approximately $78 million on their claims for off-the-clock work and missed rest breaks. The jury found in favor of the Company on
the plaintiffs  meal-period claims. On November 14, 2007, the trial judge entered a final judgment in the approximate amount of $188 million, which included the jury s back-pay award plus statutory penalties, prejudgment interest and
attorneys  fees. By operation of law, post-judgment interest accrues on the judgment amount at the rate of six percent per annum from the date of entry of the judgment, which was November 14, 2007, until the judgment is paid, unless the
judgment is set aside on appeal. On December 7, 2007, the Company filed its Notice of Appeal. The Company filed its opening appellate brief on February 17, 2009, plaintiffs filed their response brief on April 20, 2009, and the Company
filed its reply brief on June 5, 2009. Oral argument was held before the Superior Court of Appeals on August 19, 2009. On June 10, 2011, the Superior Court of Appeals issued an opinion upholding the trial court s certification of
the class, the jury s back pay award, and the awards of statutory penalties and prejudgment interest, but reversing the award of attorneys  fees and remanding it back to the trial court for a downward adjustment. On July 10, 2011, the
Company filed an Application for Rehearing En Banc with regard to the portions of the opinion that held in favor of the plaintiffs, which was denied on August 11, 2011. On September 9, 2011, the Company filed a Petition for Allowance of
Appeal with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. The plaintiffs filed a response on September 23, 2011, and the Company filed a reply brief on September 30, 2011. The Company believes it has substantial factual and legal defenses to the claims
at issue, and plans to continue pursuing appellate review.       Gender Discrimination Class Actions:  The Company is a defendant in  Dukes
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. , which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in June 2001 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, asserting that the Company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating
against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys  fees. On June 21, 2004, the district court issued an order granting
in part and denying in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification. As defined by the district court, the class included  [a]ll women employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998, who have
been or may be subjected to Wal-Mart s challenged pay and management track promotions policies and practices.  The Company appealed the order to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and subsequently to the United States Supreme Court. On
June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to the district court. On October 27, 2011, the plaintiffs  attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former
female associates at the Company s California retail facilities, and the Company filed a Motion to Dismiss on January 13, 2012. On October 28, 2011, the plaintiffs  attorneys filed a complaint in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Texas entitled  Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. , proposing a class of current and former female associates at the Company s Texas retail facilities and asserting claims and relief similar to Dukes. The Company
filed a Motion to Dismiss on March 5, 2012. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of
operations.       Hazardous Materials Investigations:  On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United
States Attorney s Office for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain
merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain
returned merchandise from the Company s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain
materials as  hazardous waste  directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney s Office in the Northern District of California and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
subsequently joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws
and regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   
         43   

Note 12. Commitments    
   The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have long-term leases for stores and equipment. Rentals (including amounts applicable to
taxes, insurance, maintenance, other operating expenses and contingent rentals) under operating leases and other short-term rental arrangements were $2.4 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  Aggregate minimum annual rentals at January 31, 2012, under non-cancelable leases are as follows:   
   
    Certain of the Company s leases provide for the payment of contingent rentals based on a percentage of sales. Such
contingent rentals were immaterial for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Substantially all of the Company s store leases have renewal options, some of which may trigger an escalation in rentals.   
  The Company has future lease commitments for land and buildings for approximately 425 future locations. These lease commitments have lease terms ranging
from 4 to 50 years and provide for certain minimum rentals. If executed, payments under operating leases would increase by $92 million for fiscal 2013, based on current cost estimates.      In connection with certain debt financing, the Company could be liable for early termination payments if certain unlikely events were to occur. At January 31, 2012, the aggregate termination payment
would have been $122 million. The arrangements pursuant to which these payments could be made expire in fiscal 2019.   
    Note 13. Retirement-Related Benefits    
   Through fiscal 2011, the Company maintained separate profit sharing and 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto
Rico, under which associates generally became participants following one year of employment. The profit sharing component was entirely funded by the Company, and the Company also made additional contributions to the 401(k) component of the plan. In
addition to the Company s contributions, associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan.      Effective February 1, 2011, the Company terminated the previous profit sharing and 401(k) plans and offered new safe harbor 401(k) plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which
associates generally become participants following one year of employment. Under the safe harbor 401(k) plans, the Company matches 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. The matching contributions immediately vest at
100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits.
     Contribution expense associated with these plans was $752 million in fiscal 2012 and $1.1 billion fiscal 2011 and 2010.   
  Employees in international countries who are not U.S. citizens are covered by various post-employment benefit arrangements. These plans are administered
based upon the legislative and tax requirements in the countries in which they are established. Annual contributions to international retirement savings and profit sharing plans are made at the discretion of the Company, and were $284 million, $221
million and $218 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         44   

The Company s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Japan have defined benefit pension plans. The plan
in the United Kingdom was underfunded by $339 million and $494 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The plan in Japan was underfunded by $325 million and $309 million at January 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These
underfunded amounts have been recorded in deferred income taxes and other in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2012 and 2011. Certain other international operations have defined benefit arrangements that are not
significant.      In February 2011, ASDA and the trustees of ASDA s defined benefit plan agreed to remove future benefit accruals from the
plan and, with the consent of a majority of the plan participants, also removed the link between past accrual and future pay increases. In return, ASDA paid approximately $70 million in fiscal 2012 to the plan participants. The related curtailment
gain of approximately $90 million was recorded in fiscal 2012 as a decrease to deferred actuarial losses in other comprehensive income.   
    Note 14. Acquisitions, Investments and Disposals    
     Acquisitions and Investments        Certain acquisitions completed or in process during fiscal 2012 are as follows:       Massmart
Holdings Limited ( Massmart ):  In June 2011, the Company completed a tender offer for approximately 51% ownership in Massmart, a South African retailer with approximately 290 stores in 13 sub-Saharan African countries. The purchase
price for approximately 51% of Massmart was approximately ZAR 16.9 billion ($2.5 billion). The assets acquired were approximately $6.4 billion, including approximately $3.5 billion in goodwill; liabilities assumed were approximately $1.9 billion;
and the non-controlling interest was approximately $2.0 billion. As of January 31, 2012, the allocation of the Massmart purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities is provisional. The Company began consolidating
Massmart s results in its fiscal 2012 third quarter reporting period.       Netto Food Stores Limited ( Netto ):  In April
2011, the Company completed the regulatory approved acquisition of 147 Netto stores from Dansk Supermarked in the United Kingdom. The Company converted the majority of these stores to the ASDA brand during fiscal 2012. The final purchase price for
the acquisition was approximately  750 million ($1.2 billion). The assets acquired were approximately $1.3 billion, including approximately $748 million in goodwill, and liabilities assumed were approximately $103 million. As of
January 31, 2012, the allocation of the Netto purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities is provisional.   
   Bounteous Company Limited ( BCL ):  In February 2007, the Company purchased an initial 35% interest in BCL, which operates in China under
the Trust-Mart banner. The Company paid $264 million for its initial 35% interest and, as additional consideration, paid $376 million to extinguish a third-party loan issued to the selling BCL shareholders that was secured by the pledge of the
remaining equity of BCL. Concurrent with its initial investment in BCL, the Company entered into a Shareholders  Agreement, which provides the Company with voting rights associated with a portion of the common stock of BCL securing the loan,
amounting to an additional 30% of the aggregate outstanding shares. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company was committed to purchase the remaining interest in BCL on or before November 26, 2010, subject to certain conditions. The
Company and the selling shareholder have mutually agreed to extend the closing, while certain conditions of the contract are being completed. The parties are now in the process of completing the local registrations for the Trustmart stores and
expect to complete the sale of the remaining equity interest in Trustmart as soon as practicable following that process.        Disposals
       At January 31, 2010, the Company had an unrecognized tax benefit of $1.7 billion related to a worthless stock deduction from the
final 2007 disposition of its German operations. This matter was effectively settled with the Internal Revenue Service, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, resulting in a $1.0 billion tax benefit recorded in discontinued operations in the
Company s Consolidated Statement of Income. In addition, during fiscal 2012, tax and interest expense of $67 million was recorded to discontinued operations related to this settlement for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. See Note 10
for additional information.      During fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a restructuring program for its Japanese subsidiary, The Seiyu Ltd., to
close approximately 23 stores and dispose of certain excess properties, which was substantially completed in fiscal 2010. This restructuring involved incurring costs associated with lease termination obligations, asset impairment charges and
employee separation benefits. The operating results, including the restructuring and impairment charges were approximately $7 million and $79 million, net of tax, for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and are presented as discontinued operations
in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.   
         45   

The assets, liabilities, net sales and cash flows related to the Company s discontinued operations were
not significant during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010. The net income or losses related to the Company s discontinued operations, including the gain and (losses) upon disposition, are as follows:   

Note 15. Segments    
   The Company operates retail stores in various formats around the world. The Company s operations are conducted in three reportable
segments: the Walmart U.S. segment; the Walmart International segment; and the Sam s Club segment. The Company defines its segments as those business units whose operating results its chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) regularly
reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. The Company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments. It is impractical to segregate and identify revenue and profits for each individual product and service.
     The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company s mass merchant concept in the United States operating under the  Walmart  or
 Wal-Mart  brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company s operations outside of the United States. The Sam s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States,
as well as samsclub.com. The amounts under the caption  Other unallocated  in the table below include corporate overhead and other items not allocated to any of the Company s segments.   
  The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment s operating income, which includes certain corporate
overhead allocations. From time to time, the Company revises the measurement of each segment s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by its CODM. When the measurement
of the segments change, previous fiscal year amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current fiscal year presentation. Information for the Company s segments and the reconciliation to consolidated income from continuing
operations before income taxes are in the following table:   
         46   

The net revenues, consisting of net sales and membership and other income, of the Company s United States operations
were $320 billion, $312 billion and $310 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property and equipment, net, of the Company s United States operations were $75.9 billion, $73.6
billion and $70.7 billion as of January 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. No other countries had net revenues or long-lived assets, net, that were material to the consolidated totals. Additionally, the Company did not generate material net
revenues from any single customer.   
    Note 16. Subsequent Event    
   On March 1, 2012, the Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend for fiscal 2013 to $1.59 per share, an
increase of approximately 9% over the dividends paid in fiscal 2012. Dividends per share were $1.46 and $1.21 in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. For fiscal 2013, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments of $0.3975 per
share, according to the following record and payable dates:       
 
         47   

Note 17. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)    
    
     The sum of per share data may not agree to annual amounts due to rounding.    

         48   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
   The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. at January 31, 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       
 
         49   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
       The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       We have audited Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying  Management s Report to Our Shareholders.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      As indicated in the accompanying
 Management s Report to Our Shareholders , management s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Massmart Holdings Limited and Netto
Food Stores Limited, which are included in the 2012 consolidated financial statements of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and constituted 3.8% and 1.1% of the Company s consolidated total assets and consolidated net sales, respectively, as of and for the
year ended January 31, 2012. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Massmart Holdings Limited and Netto Food Stores
Limited.      In our opinion, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of January 31, 2012, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. as of January 31, 2012 and 2011, and related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 31, 2012 and our report dated March 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst
  Young LLP      Rogers, Arkansas   
  March 27, 2012   
         50   

Management s Report to Our Shareholders       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.      Management of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart,  the
 company  or  we ) is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of Walmart s Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial information contained in this Annual Report to Shareholders. Those
Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In preparing those Consolidated Financial Statements, management was required to make certain estimates and judgments,
which are based upon currently available information and management s view of current conditions and circumstances.      The Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors, which consists solely of independent directors, oversees our process of reporting financial information and the audit of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The Audit Committee stays informed of the financial condition
of Walmart and regularly reviews management s financial policies and procedures, the independence of our independent auditors, our internal control over financial reporting and the objectivity of our financial reporting. Both the independent
auditors and the internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee and meet with the Audit Committee periodically, both with and without management present.      Acting through our Audit Committee, we have retained Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit our Consolidated Financial Statements found in this Annual
Report to Shareholders. We have made available to Ernst   Young LLP all of our financial records and related data in connection with their audit of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) the required certifications related to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended January 31, 2012. These certifications are attached as exhibits to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended January 31, 2012. Additionally, we have also provided to the New York Stock Exchange the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding our compliance with the New York Stock Exchange s corporate
governance listing standards.       Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management has responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
as of January 31, 2012. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations ( COSO ) of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework .
Management concluded that based on its assessment, Walmart s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 31, 2012. The Company s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2012, has been
audited by Ernst   Young LLP as stated in their report which appears in this Annual Report to Shareholders.      Under guidelines
established by the SEC, companies are allowed to exclude acquisitions from their first assessment of internal control over financial reporting following the date of acquisition. Based on those guidelines, management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting excluded Massmart Holdings Limited ( Massmart ), of which the Company purchased a controlling interest in fiscal 2012, as well as Netto Food Stores Limited
( Netto ), of which the Company purchased 147 stores in the United Kingdom in fiscal 2012. Massmart and Netto represented, in the aggregate, 3.8% and 1.1% of the Company s consolidated total assets and consolidated net sales,
respectively, as of and for the year ended January 31, 2012. These acquisitions are more fully discussed in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for fiscal 2012.       Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain disclosure controls and
procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be timely disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. Management has assessed the effectiveness of these disclosure controls and
procedures as of January 31, 2012, and determined they were effective as of that date to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, was accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and were effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified by the SEC s rules and forms.   
         51   

Report on Ethical Standards       Our Company was founded on the belief that open communications and the highest standards of ethics are necessary to be successful. Our long-standing  Open Door  communication policy helps
management be aware of and address issues in a timely and effective manner. Through the open door policy all associates are encouraged to inform management at the appropriate level when they are concerned about any matter pertaining to Walmart.
     Walmart has adopted a Statement of Ethics to guide our associates in the continued observance of high ethical standards such as honesty,
integrity and compliance with the law in the conduct of Walmart s business. Familiarity and compliance with the Statement of Ethics is required of all associates who are part of management. The Company also maintains a separate Code of Ethics
for our senior financial officers. Walmart also has in place a Related-Party Transaction Policy. This policy applies to Walmart s senior officers and directors and requires material related-party transactions to be reviewed by the Audit
Committee. The senior officers and directors are required to report material related-party transactions to Walmart. We maintain a global ethics office which oversees and administers an ethics helpline. The ethics helpline provides a channel for
associates to make confidential and anonymous complaints regarding potential violations of our statements of ethics, including violations related to financial or accounting matters.   

/s/ Michael T. Duke    
 
  Michael T. Duke   
 
   President and Chief Executive Officer    

/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    
 
  Charles M. Holley, Jr.   
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
         52   

Fiscal 2012 Unit Count       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       
 
         53   

Walmart International       Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 70 banners, represented in three major categories. Unit counts   (1)       as of January 31, 2012 are as follows:

(1)   
        Walmart
International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2011, to correspond with the country s balance sheet date.      

(2)   
        Sub-Saharan Africa
includes Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.      

(3)   
         Other 
consists of restaurants operating under varying banners in Chile, Japan and Mexico.      
         54   

Board of Directors        Aida M. Alvarez       Ms. Alvarez is the former Administrator of the U.S. Small Business
Administration and was a member of President Clinton s Cabinet from 1997 to 2001.       James W. Breyer    
  Mr. Breyer is a Partner of Accel Partners, a venture capital firm.       M. Michele Burns       Ms. Burns is the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of
the Retirement Policy Center sponsored by Marsh   McLennan Companies, Inc.       James I. Cash, Jr., Ph.D.    
  Dr. Cash is the retired James E. Robison Emeritus Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School, where he served from July 1976 to
October 2003.       Roger C. Corbett       Mr. Corbett is the retired Chief Executive Officer and Group Managing Director of Woolworths Limited, the largest retail company in Australia.   
   Douglas N. Daft       Mr. Daft is the
retired Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of The Coca-Cola Company, a beverage manufacturer, where he served in that capacity from February 2000 until May 2004 and in various other capacities since 1969.   
   Michael T. Duke       Mr. Duke is the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and is the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.   
   Gregory B. Penner       Mr. Penner is a
General Partner at Madrone Capital Partners, an investment management firm.       Steven S Reinemund    
  Mr. Reinemund is the Dean of Business and Professor of Leadership and Strategy at Wake Forest University. He previously served as the Chairman of the
Board and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo, Inc.       H. Lee Scott, Jr.    
  Mr. Scott is the former Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. He is the former President and Chief
Executive Officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., serving in that position from January 2000 to January 2009.       Arne M. Sorenson    
  Mr. Sorenson is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Marriott International, Inc.       Jim C. Walton       Mr. Walton is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of Arvest Bank Group, Inc., a group of banks operating in the states of Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma.       S.
Robson Walton       Mr. Walton is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
   Christopher J. Williams    
  Mr. Williams is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of The Williams Capital Group, L.P., an investment bank.
      Linda S. Wolf       Ms. Wolf
is the retired Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Leo Burnett Worldwide, Inc., an advertising agency and division of Publicis Groupe S.A.   
         55   

Corporate and stock information       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       Corporate information    
  Stock Registrar and Transfer Agent:   
  Computershare Trust Company, N.A.      P.O. Box
43069      Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3069      1-800-438-6278      TDD for hearing-impaired inside the U.S. 1-800-952-9245   
  Internet: http//www.computershare.com   
   Listing       New York Stock Exchange
     Stock Symbol: WMT       Annual
meeting       Our Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on Friday, June 1, 2012, at 7:00 a.m. (Central time) in Bud Walton Arena on
the University of Arkansas campus, Fayetteville, Arkansas.       Communication with shareholders    
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. periodically communicates with its shareholders and other members of the investment community about our operations. For further
information regarding our policy on shareholder and investor communications refer to our website  www.walmartstores.com/investors .      The
following reports are available without charge upon request by writing the Company c/o Investor Relations or by calling 479-273-8446. These reports are also available via the corporate website.   
   Annual Report on Form 10-K        Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q        Earnings Releases    
   Current Reports on Form 8-K        Copy of Annual Shareholders  Meeting Proxy Statement        Global
Responsibility Report        Diversity and Inclusion Report    
   Workforce Diversity Report        Independent registered public accounting firm       Ernst   Young LLP   
  5414 Pinnacle Point Dr., Suite 102      Rogers, AR
72758       Market price of common stock       The high and low market price per share for the Company s common stock in fiscal 2012 and 2011 were as follows:       
 
         56   

The high and low market price per share for the Company s common stock for the first quarter of fiscal
2013, were as follows:       

Dividends payable per share       For fiscal
2013, dividends will be paid based on the following schedule:       
     Dividends paid per share       For fiscal 2012, dividends were paid based on the following schedule:       
    For fiscal 2011, dividends were paid based on the following schedule:   
   
     Stock performance chart       This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart s common stock during the five fiscal years ending with fiscal 2012 to the cumulative total returns on the S P 500 Retailing
Index and the S P 500 Index. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2007, in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.   

Shareholders       As of March 22, 2012, there were 275,525 holders of record of Walmart s common stock.   
         57   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 d270972dex21.htm
 LIST OF THE COMPANY'S SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21        Significant Subsidiaries of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       The following list details certain of
the subsidiaries of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Subsidiaries not included in the list are omitted because, in the aggregate, they are insignificant as defined by Item 601(b)(21) of Regulation S-K.   

Subsidiary    
      
   Organized or Incorporated   
      
   Percent of Equity Securities Owned   

Name Under Which 
Doing Business     Other Than Subsidiary s    

Wal-Mart Stores East, LP   
      
  Delaware, U.S.  

100  
  %   
     
  Walmart    
 
    Wal-Mart Property Company   
      
  Delaware, U.S.  

100  
  %   
     
  NA   
 
    Wal-Mart Real Estate Business Trust   
      
  Delaware, U.S.  

100  
  %   
     
  NA   
 
    ASDA Group Limited   
      
  England  

100  
  %   
     
  ASDA/Walmart   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 d270972dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       We consent to the incorporation
by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for the year ended January 31, 2012 of our reports dated March 27, 2012, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., included in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.      We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:       
    of our reports dated March 27, 2012, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., incorporated herein by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for the year ended January 31, 2012.   
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Rogers,
Arkansas      March 27, 2012   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 d270972dex311.htm
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

Chief Executive Officer Section 302 Certification 

Exhibit 31.1       I, Michael T. Duke, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluations; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the Audit Committee of registrant s Board of Directors:         

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: March 27, 2012   

/s/ Michael T. Duke   
 
  Michael T. Duke   
 
  President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 d270972dex312.htm
 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

Chief Financial Officer Section 302 Certification 

Exhibit 31.2       I, Charles M. Holley, Jr., certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluations; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the Audit Committee of registrant s Board of Directors:         

a)  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: March 27, 2012   

/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    

Charles M. Holley, Jr.  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 d270972dex321.htm
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Chief Executive Officer Section 906 Certification 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 (AS ADOPTED
       PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE        SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002)       In connection with the Annual Report of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending January 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael T. Duke, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify to my knowledge and in my capacity as an officer of the Company, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   
  1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
     2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company as of the dates and for the periods expressed in the Report.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Certificate, effective as of March 27, 2012.        

/s/ Michael T. Duke   
 
  Michael T. Duke   
 
  President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 d270972dex322.htm
 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Chief Financial Officer Section 906 Certification 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 (AS ADOPTED
       PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE        SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002)       In connection with the Annual Report of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending January 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Charles M. Holley, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify to my knowledge and in my capacity as an officer of the Company, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   
  1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
     2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company as of the dates and for the periods expressed in the Report.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Certificate, effective as of March 27, 2012.        

/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.   
 
  Charles M. Holley, Jr.   
 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 wmt-20120131.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 wmt-20120131.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 wmt-20120131_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 wmt-20120131_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 wmt-20120131_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 wmt-20120131_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

