<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080215_10-K_edgar_data_773840_0000930413-08-001037_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2263500</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>383736</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>37341</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1294019</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>101</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000930413-08-001037.hdr.sgml : 20080215
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080215120153
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000930413-08-001037
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080215

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000773840
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES [3714]
		IRS NUMBER:				222640650
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08974
		FILM NUMBER:		08621635

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 COLUMBIA RD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 4000
		CITY:			MORRISTOWN
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07962
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9734552000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 COLUMBIA RD P O BOX 4000
		STREET 2:		101 COLUMBIA RD P O BOX 4000
		CITY:			MORRISTOWN
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07962

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALLIEDSIGNAL INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940929

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FVF4BNibXEEa2Q1bpioU9vRcuvsTc9FMPWjBk+vT1p6jlQqintZPUlKYVsFAZIyP
 kkukE/EJ9h/ee8fKQ4aSQA==

 0000930413-08-001037.txt : 20080215

10-K
 1
 c51271_10k.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_10k.htm 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  
   Form 10-K   
      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2007  OR     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from      to      Commission file number   1-8974   
   Honeywell International Inc.   
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

DELAWARE   

22-2640650   

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   

101 Columbia Road Morris Township, New Jersey   

07962   

(Address of principal executive offices)   

(Zip Code)   

Registrant s telephone number, including area code (973)455-2000  
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class   

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered   

Common Stock, par value $1 per share*   

New York Stock Exchange   

Chicago Stock Exchange   

Zero Coupon Serial Bonds due 2009   

New York Stock Exchange   

9 1 / 2 % Debentures due June 1, 2016   

New York Stock Exchange   

*   

The common stock is also listed for trading on the London Stock Exchange. 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       X      No         
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes         No       X       
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
  period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes       X      No          
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
  information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  accelerated filer,   large
  accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):  
  Large accelerated filer          Accelerated filer          Non-accelerated filer         Smaller reporting company      
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes         No       X       
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant was approximately $42.1 billion at June 30, 2007.  
  There were 744,382,933 shares of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 2008.  
    Documents Incorporated by Reference   
  Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held April 28, 2008.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Item    

Page    

Part I   

1.   

Business    

1   

1A.   

Risk Factors    

10   

1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments    

15   

2.   

Properties    

15   

3.   

Legal Proceedings    

16   

4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

16   

Executive Officers of the Registrant    

17   

Part II.   

5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

18   

6.   

Selected Financial Data    

20   

7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

20   

7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

46   

8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

47   

9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

102   

9A.   

Controls and Procedures    

102   

9B.   

Other Information    

103   

Part III.   

10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    

103   

11.   

Executive Compensation    

103   

12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

103   

13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    

106   

14.   

Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

106   

Part IV.   

15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

107   

Signatures    

108   

PART I.   
    Item 1. Business    
  Honeywell International Inc. (Honeywell) is a diversified technology and manufacturing company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, control, sensing and security
  technologies for buildings, homes and industry, turbochargers, automotive products, specialty chemicals, electronic and advanced materials, and process technology for refining and petrochemicals.
  Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.  
  We maintain an internet website at http://www.honeywell.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those
  reports, are available free of charge on our website under the heading  Investor Relations  (see  SEC Filings   Reports ) immediately after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
  Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we
  expect to file with the SEC on or about March 13, 2008, and which will also be available free of charge on our website.  
  Information relating to corporate governance at Honeywell, including Honeywell s Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the Committees of the Board of
  Directors are also available, free of charge, on our website under the heading  Investor Relations  (see  Corporate Governance ), or by writing to Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New
  Jersey 07962, c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell s Code of Business Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
  and Controller) and employees.  
  The certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 about the disclosure contained in this Annual
  Report on Form 10-K are included as Exhibits 31.1, 31.2, 32.1 and 32.2 to this Annual Report and are available free of charge on our website under the heading  Investor Relations  (see  SEC Filings  
  Reports ). Our Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on May 3, 2007, pursuant to Section 303A.12 of the NYSE s listing standards, that he was not aware of any
  violation by Honeywell of the NYSE s corporate governance listing standards as of that date.  
   Major Businesses   
  We globally manage our business operations through four businesses that are reported as operating segments: Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions, Specialty Materials and Transportation
  Systems. Financial information related to our operating segments is included in Note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
  The major products/services, customers/uses and key competitors of each of our operating segments follows:  
   Aerospace   
  Our Aerospace segment is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines, systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business and general aviation, military, space
  and airport operations.  

Product/Service Classes    

Major Products/Services    

Major Customers/Uses    

Key Competitors    

Turbine propulsion engines   

TFE731 turbofan TFE1042 turbofan ATF3 turbofan F124 turbofan ALF502 turbofan LF507 turbofan CFE738 turbofan HTF 7000 turbofan T53, T55 turboshaft T800 turboshaft   

Business, regional, general    aviation and military    trainer aircraft Commercial and military    helicopters Military vehicles   

United Technologies Rolls Royce/Allison Turbomeca Williams   

1  

Product/Service Classes    

Major Products/Services    

Major Customers/Uses    

Key Competitors    

Turbine propulsion engines (continued)   

TF40B/50A HTS900 LT101-650/750/850 TPE 331 turboprop AGT1500 turboshaft Repair, overhaul and    spare parts   

Auxiliary power units (APUs)   

Airborne auxiliary power    units Jet fuel starters Secondary power systems Ground power units Repair, overhaul and    spare parts   

Commercial, regional,    business and military    aircraft Ground power   

United Technologies   

Environmental control systems   

Air management systems:    Air conditioning    Bleed air    Cabin pressure control    Air purification and    treatment Gas Processing Heat Exchangers Turbo Systems Repair, overhaul and    spare parts   

Commercial, regional and    general aviation aircraft Military aircraft Ground vehicles Spacecraft   

Auxilec Barber Colman Dukes Eaton-Vickers General Electric Goodrich Liebherr Pacific Scientific Parker Hannifin TAT United Technologies   

Electric power systems   

Generators Power distribution      control Power conditioning Repair, overhaul and    spare parts   

Commercial, regional,    business and military    aircraft   

General Electric Goodrich Safran United Technologies   

Engine systems and accessories   

Electronic and    hydromechanical fuel    controls Engine start systems Electronic engine controls Sensors Valves Electric and pneumatic    power generation    systems Thrust reverser actuation,    pneumatic and electric   

Commercial, regional and    general aviation aircraft Military aircraft   

BAE Controls Goodrich Parker Hannifin United Technologies   

Aircraft hardware distribution   

Fasteners, including nuts,    bolts, rivets, clamps and    pins Bearings, including ball,    roller, spherical, needle    and ceramic Electrical hardware,    including connectors,    components, lighting    products, terminals, and    wire and wiring    accessories Seals, including seals,    o-rings, gaskets and    packings Value-added services,    repair and overhaul    kitting and point-of-use    replenishment   

Commercial, regional,    business and military    aviation aircraft   

Anixter Arrow Pemco Avnet BE Aerospace (M M    Aerospace) Fairchild Direct Satair Wencor Wesco Aircraft   

Avionics systems   

Flight safety systems:    Enhanced Ground    Proximity Warning    Systems (EGPWS)    Traffic Alert and    Collision Avoidance    Systems (TCAS)    Windshear detection    systems    Flight data and cockpit    voice recorders    Weather radar   

Commercial, business and    general aviation aircraft Government aviation   

BAE Boeing/Jeppesen Garmin General Electric Goodrich Kaiser L3 Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman Rockwell Collins Thales Trimble/Terra Universal Avionics Universal Weather   

2  

Product/Service Classes    

Major Products/Services    

Major Customers/Uses    

Key Competitors    

Avionics systems (continued)   

Communication, navigation    and surveillance systems:    Navigation      guidance systems    Global positioning    systems    Satellite systems Integrated systems Flight management systems Cockpit display systems Data management and    aircraft performance    monitoring systems Aircraft information systems Network file servers Wireless network    transceivers Weather information network Navigation database    information Cabin management systems Vibration detection and    monitoring Mission management    systems Tactical data management    systems   

Aircraft and Obstruction lighting   

Inset lights Regulators Tower and obstruction    lights Interior and exterior aircraft    lighting   

Commercial, regional,    business, helicopter and    military aviation aircraft    (operators, OEMs, parts    distributors and MRO    service providers) General contractors    (building and tower    manufacturers),    cell-phone companies   

Bruce Hella/Goodrich LSI Luminator Siemens Whelen   

Inertial sensor   

Inertial sensor systems for    guidance, stabilization,    navigation and control Gyroscopes,    accelerometers, inertial    measurement units and    thermal switches   

Military and commercial    vehicles Commercial spacecraft    and launch vehicles Commercial, regional,    business and military    aircraft Transportation Missiles Munitions   

Astronautics-Kearfott BAE Ball GEC General Electric L3 Com KVH Northrop Grumman Rockwell   

Control products   

Radar altimeters Pressure products Air data products Thermal switches Magnetic sensors   

Military aircraft Missiles, UAVs Commercial applications   

Ball Brothers BAE Druck Goodrich NavCom Northrop Grumman Rosemount Solarton   

Space products and subsystems   

Guidance subsystems Control subsystems Processing subsystems Radiation hardened    electronics and integrated    circuits GPS-based range safety    systems   

Commercial and    military-spacecraft DoD FAA NASA   

BAE Ithaco L3 Northrop Grumman Raytheon   

Management and technical services   

Maintenance/operation and    provision of space    systems, services and    facilities Systems engineering and    integration Information technology    services Logistics and sustainment   

U.S. government space    (NASA) DoD (logistics and    information services) FAA DoE Local governments Commercial space    ground segment    systems and    services   

Bechtel Boeing Computer Sciences Dyncorp ITT Lockheed Martin Raytheon SAIC The Washington    Group United Space    Alliance   

3  

Product/Service Classes    

Major Products/Services    

Major Customers/Uses    

Key Competitors    

Landing systems   

Wheels and brakes Wheel and brake repair and    overhaul services   

Commercial airline, regional,    business and military    aircraft High performance    commercial vehicles USAF, DoD, DoE Boeing, Airbus, Lockheed    Martin   

Dunlop Standard Aerospace Goodrich K F Industries Messier-Bugatti NASCO   

Automation and Control Solutions   
  Our
    Automation and Control Solutions segment is a leading global provider of
    environmental and combustion controls, sensing controls, security and life
    safety products and services and process automation and building solutions
    and services for homes, buildings and industrial facilities.  

Environmental and combustion controls; sensing controls   

Heating, ventilating and    air conditioning controls    and components for    homes and buildings 
Indoor air quality products    including zoning, air    cleaners, humidification,    heat and energy recovery    ventilators 
Controls plus integrated    electronic systems for    burners, boilers and    furnaces Consumer household    products including 
   humidifiers and    thermostats Electrical devices and 
   switches Water controls Sensors, measurement,    control and industrial    components   

Original equipment    manufacturers (OEMs) Distributors Contractors Retailers System integrators Commercial customers and    homeowners served by    the distributor, wholesaler, 
   contractor, retail and    utility channels Package and materials    handling operations Appliance manufacturers Automotive companies Aviation companies Food and beverage    processors Medical equipment Heat treat processors Computer and business    equipment manufacturers   

Bosch Cherry Danfoss Eaton Emerson Endress   Hauser Holmes Invensys Johnson Controls Motorola Schneider Siemens United Technologies Yamatake   

Security and life safety products and services   

Security products and    systems Fire products and systems Access controls and closed    circuit television Home health monitoring    and nurse call systems Gas detection products and    systems Emergency lighting Distribution Hand held imagers Mobile and wireless    computers   

OEMs Retailers Distributors Commercial customers and    homeowners served by    the distributor, wholesaler,    contractor, retail and    utility channels Health care organizations Security monitoring service    providers   

Bosch Draeger GE Intermec Technologoes Mine Safety Appliances Motorola Pelco Phillips Riken Keiki Siemens Tyco United Technologies   

Process automation products and solutions   

Advanced control software    and industrial automation    systems for control and    monitoring of continuous,    batch and hybrid    operations Production management    software Communications systems for    Industrial Control    equipment and systems Consulting, networking    engineering and    installation Terminal automation    solutions Process control    instrumentation Field instrumentation Analyti

cal instrumentation Recorders Controllers Critical environment control    solutions and services Aftermarket maintenance,    repair and upgrade   

Refining and petrochemical    companies Chemical manufacturers Oil and gas producers Food and beverage    processors Pharmaceutical companies Utilities Film and coated producers Pulp and paper industry Continuous web producers    in the paper, plastics,    metals, rubber,    non-wovens and printing    industries Mining and mineral    industries   

ABB AspenTech Emerson Invensys Siemens Yokogawa   

4  

Product/Service Classes    

Major Products/Services    

Major Customers/Uses    

Key Competitors    

Building solutions and services   

HVAC and building control    solutions and services Energy management    solutions and services Security and asset    management solutions    and services Enterprise building    integration solutions Building information services Airport lighting and systems,    visual docking guidance    systems   

Building managers and    owners Contractors, architects    and developers Consulting engineers Security directors Plant managers Utilities Large global corporations Public school systems Universities Local governments Public housing agencies Airports   

Ameresco GroupMac Ingersoll Rand Invensys Johnson Controls Local contractors and    utilities Safegate Schneider Siemens Trane Thorn United Technologies   

Specialty Materials   
  Our Specialty Materials segment is a global leader in providing customers with high-performance specialty materials, including fluorine products, specialty films and additives, advanced fibers and
  composites, intermediates, specialty chemicals, electronic materials and chemicals, and catalysts, adsorbents, equipment and technologies for the petrochemical and refining industries.  

Resins   chemicals   

Nylon polymer Caprolactam Ammonium sulfate Cyclohexanone Cyclophexanol (KA Oil)   

Nylon for carpet fibers,    engineered resins    and packaging Fertilizer ingredients Specialty chemicals   

BASF DSM   

Hydrofluoric acid (HF)   

Anhydrous and aqueous    hydrofluoric acid   

Fluorocarbons Steel Oil refining Chemical intermediates   

Mexichem Flour Solvay   

Fluorocarbons   

Genetron  refrigerants,    aerosol and insulation    foam blowing agents Genesolv  solvents Oxyfume sterilant gases Ennovate 3000 blowing    agent for refrigeration    insulation   

Refrigeration Air conditioning Polyurethane foam Precision cleaning Optical Appliances Hospitals Medical equipment    manufacturers   

Arkema Dupont Solvay-Solexis Ineos   

Fluorine specialties   

Sulfur hexafluoride (SF  6  ) Iodine pentafluoride (IF ) Antimony pentafluoride    (SbF  5  )   

Electric utilities Magnesium gear    manufacturers   

Air Products Asahi Glass Solvay-Solexis   

Nuclear services   

UF  6   conversion services   

Nuclear fuel Electric utilities   

Cameco Comurhex Rosatom   

Research and fine chemicals   

Oxime-based fine chemicals Fluoroaromatics High-purity solvents   

Agrichemicals Biotech   

Avecia Degussa DSM E. Merck Thermo Fisher Scientific Lonza Sigma-Aldrich   

Performance chemicals Imaging chemicals Chemical processing    sealants   

HF derivatives Fluoroaromatics Catalysts Oxime-silanes   

Diverse by product type   

Atotech BASF DSM   

Advanced fibers   composites   

High modulus polyethylene    fiber and shield    composites Aramid shield composites   

Bullet resistant vests,    helmets and other    armor applications Cut-resistant gloves Rope   cordage   

DuPont DSM Teijin   

Specialty films   

Cast nylon film Bi-axially oriented nylon film Fluoropolymer film   

Food and pharmaceutical    packaging   

American Biaxis CFP Daikin Kolon Unitika   

5  

Product/Service Classes    

Major Products/Services    

Major Customers/Uses    

Key Competitors    

Specialty additives   

Polyethylene waxes Paraffin waxes and blends PVC lubricant systems Processing aids Luminescent pigments   

Coatings and inks PVC pipe, siding   profiles Plastics Reflective coatings Safety   security    applications   

BASF Clariant Eastman   

Electronic chemicals   

Ultra high-purity HF Inorganic acids Hi-purity solvents   

Semiconductors Photovoltaics   

Air Products Arch E. Merck   

Semiconductor materials and services   

Interconnect-dielectrics Interconnect-metals Semiconductor packaging    materials Advanced polymers Sapphire substrates Anti-reflective coatings Thermo-couples   

Semiconductors Microelectronics Telecommunications   

BASF Brewer Dow Corning Foxconn Japan Energy Kyocera Shinko   

Catalysts, adsorbents and specialties   

Catalysts Molecular sieves Adsorbents Customer catalyst    manufacturing   

Petroleum, refining,    petrochemical, gas    processing, and    manufacturing industries   

Akzo Nobel Axens BASF Davison Grace Haldor Shell/Criterion Sud Chemie   

Process technology and equipment   

Technology licensing and    engineering design of    process units and systems Engineered products Proprietary equipment Training and development of    technical personnel   

Petroleum refining,    petrochemical, and    gas processing   

ABB Lummus Axens BP/Amoco Exxon-Mobil Haldor Koch Glitsch Linde AG Lynara Shaw Group Shell/SGS   

Transportation Systems   
  Our Transportation Systems segment is one of the leading manufacturers of engine boosting systems for passenger cars and commercial vehicles, as well as a leading provider of automotive care
  and braking products.  

Charge-air systems   

Turbochargers for gasoline    and diesel engines   

Passenger car, truck and    off-highway OEMs Engine manufacturers Aftermarket distributors and    dealers   

Borg-Warner Holset IHI MHI   

Thermal systems   

Exhaust gas coolers Charge-air coolers Aluminum radiators Aluminum cooling modules   

Passenger car, truck and    off-highway OEMs Engine manufacturers Aftermarket distributors and    dealers   

Behr Modine Valeo   

Aftermarket filters, spark plugs, electronic components and car care products   

Oil, air, fuel, transmission    and coolant filters PCV valves Spark plugs Wire and cable Antifreeze/coolant Windshield washer fluids Waxes, washes and    specialty cleaners   

Automotive and heavy    vehicle aftermarket    channels, OEMs and    Original Equipment    Service Providers (OES) Auto supply retailers Specialty installers Mass merchandisers   

AC Delco Bosch Champion Mann   Hummel NGK Peak/Old World Industries Purolator STP/ArmorAll Turtle Wax Zerex/Valvoline   

Brake hard parts and other friction materials   

Disc brake pads and shoes Drum brake linings Brake blocks Disc and drum brake    components Brake hydraulic components Brake fluid Aircraft brake linings Railway linings   

Automotive and heavy    vehicle OEMs, OES,    brake manufacturers and    aftermarket channels Installers Railway and commercial/    military aircraft OEMs and    brake manufacturers   

Advics Akebono Federal-Mogul ITT Corp JBI Nisshinbo TMD Friction   

6  

Aerospace Sales   
  Our sales to aerospace customers were 35 percent of our total sales in each of 2007 and 2006 and 38 percent of our total sales in 2005, respectively. Our sales to commercial aerospace original
  equipment manufacturers were 10, 10 and 9 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, our sales to commercial aftermarket customers of aerospace products and services
  were 11, 11 and 15 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our Aerospace results of operations can be impacted by various industry and economic conditions. See  Item 1A. Risk
  Factors.   
   U.S. Government Sales   
  Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,011, $3,688 and $3,719
  million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,192, $3,052 and $2,939 million in 2007, 2006 and
  2005, respectively. U.S. defense spending increased in 2007 and is also expected to increase in 2008. We do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2008 federal spending due
  principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). Our contracts with
  the U.S. Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   
   Backlog   
  Our total backlog at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $12,303 and $10,674 million, respectively. We anticipate that approximately $9,155 million of the 2007 backlog will be filled in 2008. We believe
  that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer s option.  
   Competition   
  We are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive conditions vary widely among the
  thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. Depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality,
  reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive
  factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and
  technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes.
  However, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological
  capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers.  
   International Operations   
  We are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the United States, Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured
  products are significant to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 10, 11 and 10 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in
  Europe, were 39, 37 and 35 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
  Approximately 18 percent of total 2007 sales of Aerospace-related products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair
  and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 14  
  7  

percent of total 2007 Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia.  
  Approximately 2 percent of total 2007 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products and performance of services
  accounted for 58 percent of total 2007 Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe with less significant operations in Asia, Canada and
  Latin America.  
  Approximately 18 percent of total 2007 sales of Specialty Materials products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were principally made to Asia and Latin America.
  Foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 23 percent of total 2007 Specialty Materials sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less
  significant operations in Asia and Canada.  
  Exports of U.S. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2007 sales of Transportation Systems products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 70 percent of total 2007 sales of
  Transportation Systems. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia, Latin America and Canada.  
  Financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
  Data . Information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   
   Raw Materials   
  The principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. We experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2007. We are not
  dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in our Specialty Materials segment. We purchase phenol under a supply
  agreement with one supplier. We have no reason to believe there is any material risk to this supply.  
  We are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. In addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or
  subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. We maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on
  third parties. While we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future.  
  The costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol), ethylene and sulfur in our Specialty Materials  business, steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene
  glycol in our Transportation Systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace business, have been and are expected to remain at high price levels. In addition, in 2007 certain
  large long-term fixed supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our Aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility in certain component
  costs. We will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term price agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. We have no reason to believe a
  shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2008. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further discussion.  
   Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Distribution Rights   
  Our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent
  applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. From time to
  time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. We also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and
  services produced by other companies. In our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses  
  8  

are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of
  material importance in relation to our total business. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further discussion.  
  We have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including Honeywell, UOP, Prestone, FRAM, Autolite, Bendix, Jurid, Holts, Garrett, Ademco, Fire-Lite, Notifier, System
  Sensor, MK, Novar, Genetron, Enovate, Spectra, Aclar, Simoniz and Redex.  
   Research and Development   
  Our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. The Company has
  research and development activities in the U.S., Europe, India and China.  
  Research and development (R D) expense totaled $1,459, $1,411 and $1,072 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in R D expense in 2007 compared to 2006 of 3 percent was mainly
  due to additional product, design and development costs in Automation and Control Solutions and increased expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms. The increase in R D
  expense in 2006 compared to 2005 of 32 percent was primarily due to the impact of additional R D expense for UOP in Specialty Materials as well as product, design and development costs in Aerospace and
  Automation and Control Solutions. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S. Government) R D activities amounted to an additional $881, $777 and $694 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
   Environment   
  We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the
  environment. It is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of
  environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with
  other companies engaged in similar businesses.  
  We are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. We believe that, as a general
  matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of
  these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances
  in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these
  substances.  
  Among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially
  responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection
  Agency s superfund priority list. Although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup
  costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.  
  Further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in  Item 7.
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  in Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  and in
   Item 1A. Risk Factors.   
   Employees   
  We have approximately 122,000 employees at December 31, 2007, of which approximately 57,000 were located in the United States.  
  9  

Item 1A. Risk Factors    
   Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements   
  We have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
  Operations , including the overview of the Company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2008. These sections and other
  parts of this report (including this Item 1A) contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  
  Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are
  based on management s assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of
  future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any
  of our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. These forward-looking
  statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular, the factors discussed below.  
   Risk Factors   
  Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our
  actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.  
    Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our
  results of operations.    
  The operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and
  services and the level of our manufacturing costs. The operating results of our Aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are directly tied to cyclical industry
  and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and/or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft
  utilization rates, as well as supplier consolidation, factory transitions and capacity constraints, and the level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further
  discussed in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including
  aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could
  dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our Aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 36
  percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process
  automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and global economic growth rates. Specialty Materials  operating results, which generated 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007,
  are impacted by global economic growth rates, and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. Transportation Systems  operating results, which generated 15 percent of
  our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions
  and fuel economy, and consumer spending levels and patterns for automotive aftermarket and car care products. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described
  below) and non-material inflation.  
  10  

Raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to
  meet commitments to customers.    
  The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our Specialty Materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene and sulfur), Transportation
  Systems (nickel, steel, other metals and ethylene glycol) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers,
  formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations.  
  Our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in
  our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. We also depend in limited instances on sole
  source suppliers. Our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their
  non-performance. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental
  actions. Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract
  penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships.  
    Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.    
  Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of
  factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features
  that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite
  expertise.  
  Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert
  resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully
  as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more
  attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects.  
  Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights.
  Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual
  property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and
  other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties
  and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services.  
  11  

An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations.    
  Our international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including
  developing markets such as China, India and the Middle East. In 2007, 49 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the U.S. and in international locations) were outside of the U.S.
  including 29 percent in Europe and 11 percent in Asia. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment
  laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability and our
  ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product,
  marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins.  
  As we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be increasingly effected by the relative strength of the European and Asian economies and the impact of exchange
  rate fluctuations. We do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in
  eliminating such volatility.  
    We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets.    
  At December 31, 2007, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $15.7 billion. In accordance with generally
  accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected
  significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges
  could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners  equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio,
  which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets.  
    A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of Aerospace s defense
  and space-related product and services.    
  Sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to
  the U.S. Department of Defense comprised approximately 26 and 9 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Although U.S. defense spending increased
  in 2007 and is expected to increase again in 2008, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2009 and subsequent budgets
  ultimately approved by Congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation
  and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in
  funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations.  
    As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for
  convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance.    
  In addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on  
  12  

Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments,
  significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government
  business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work,
  and other factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract
  prices.  
  Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain
  contracts to comply with various government regulations. We have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future.  
  U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a
  termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the government for our
  failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government.  
  We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If Honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing
  as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new
  government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. The U.S. Government also reserves the right to
  debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years.  
    Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations.    
  The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and
  other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact Aerospace sales,
  research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire,
  security, safety, health care, enviornmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Specialty Materials  results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of
  fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our Transportation
  Systems segment.  
    Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned.    
  We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a
  timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of
  unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, and/or
  (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe.  
  13  

We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties.    
  We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to
  commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export
  matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in
  litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and
  we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and
  financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not
  possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our
  results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition.  
    Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.    
  Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal
  injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a
  party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving
  environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the
  environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly
  equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to
  comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related
  to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results
  of operations.  
    Our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and income benefits.    
  With approximately 122,000 employees, including 57,000 in the U.S., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and income benefits are significant. In recent years, we have
  experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of
  inflation. Continued increasing health-care costs, and changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and income benefit expenses, may affect our future profitability.  
    Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability    
  We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among
  these different jurisdictions. In 2007, our tax expense represented 26.4 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects
  various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that  
  14  

could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with
  differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of our
  tax exposures.  
    Volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors may increase our cost of financing    
  Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing. In addition, our borrowing costs
  can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing.  
    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments    
  Not Applicable  
    Item 2. Properties    
  We have approximately 1,400 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories, sales offices and other facilities. Our headquarters and administrative complex is located at Morris Township, New
  Jersey. Our plants are generally located to serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and labor pools. Our properties are generally maintained in good operating condition.
  Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is significantly idle. We own or lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges,
  automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data processing equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs. Our properties and equipment are in good operating
  condition and are adequate for our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities.  
  Our principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are as follows:  

Aerospace      

Anniston, AL (leased) Glendale, AZ (leased) Phoenix, AZ Tempe, AZ Tucson, AZ Torrance, CA Clearwater, FL   

South Bend, IN Olathe, KS Minneapolis, MN Plymouth, MN Rocky Mount, NC Albuquerque, NM   

Urbana, OH Greer, SC Redmond, WA (leased) Toronto, Canada Raunheim, Germany Singapore (leased) Yeovil, UK (leased)   

Automation and Control Solutions     

Phoenix, AZ (leased) San Diego, CA (leased) Northford, CT Freeport, IL   

Golden Valley, MN 
      Skaneateles Falls, NY (leased) Mosbach, Germany Neuss, Germany 
    Schonaich, Germany   

Chihuahua, Mexico Juarez, Mexico (partially leased) Tijuana, Mexico (leased) Emmen, Netherlands Newhouse, Scotland   

Specialty Materials     

Mobile, AL Des Plaines, IL Metropolis, IL Baton Rouge, LA   

Geismar, LA Shreveport, LA Pottsville, PA Orange, TX Chesterfield, VA   

Colonial Heights, VA Hopewell, VA Spokane, WA Seelze, Germany   

15  

Transportation Systems      

Stratford, Canada Shanghai, China Conde, France   

Thaon-Les-Vosges, France Glinde, Germany Waterford, Ireland   

Atessa, Italy Kodama, Japan Ansan, Korea (leased) 
    Mexicali, Mexico (partially leased) Barcelona, Spain   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings    
  We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a discussion of environmental, asbestos
  and other litigation matters in Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
     Environmental Matters Involving Potential Monetary Sanctions in Excess of $100,000    
  Although we cannot predict the outcome of the matters described below, we believe that sufficient provisions have been made in our financial statements for these matters. We do not believe that the
  matters described below will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or operating cash flows.  
  We have been engaged in discussions with the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LADEQ) to resolve alleged civil environmental violations at our Baton Rouge and Geismar, Louisiana
  facilities that relate, in part, to a release of chlorine, a release of antimony pentachloride (which resulted in an employee fatality) and an employee exposure to hydrofluoric acid at the Baton Rouge facility
  that were the subject of a previously reported matter. A settlement has been reached with LADEQ under which Honeywell will pay a fine of $250,000 and perform certain additional Supplemental
  Environmental Projects for a total cost of approximately of $630,000. In December 2007, the United States EPA referred additional civil claims related to these incidents to the Department of Justice. At the
  Department of Justice s request, Honeywell has signed a tolling agreement while the parties discuss resolving these claims.  
  Honeywell is a defendant in a lawsuit filed by the Arizona Attorney General s office on behalf of the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ). The complaint alleges failure to make
  required disclosures, as well as unrelated environmental violations. ADEQ s most significant allegations have been dismissed with prejudice over the course of the proceedings. The state has voluntarily
  dismissed its remaining claims without prejudice pending consideration of an appeal of its previously dismissed claims.  
  In February 2007, ADEQ demanded penalties for alleged violations by Honeywell of the state s underground storage tank regulations at the aircraft engines plant in Phoenix, Arizona. ADEQ
  subsequently added claims relating to other alleged environmental violations at the aircraft engines plant and has made a demand to resolve all alleged violations which we are evaluating. Negotiations
  regarding the penalty are ongoing.  
  Honeywell received Notices of Violation from the Maricopa County Air Quality Department in July 2006 with respect to various air permitting compliance matters at one of its facilities located in
  Phoenix, Arizona. Honeywell believes it has taken appropriate corrective and preventive actions to address the concerns raised by the County.  
    Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
  Not Applicable.  
  16  

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
  The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among them.  

(a)   

Also a Director. 

17  

Part II.   
   Item 5.     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
  Market and dividend information for Honeywell s common stock is included in Note 26 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
  The number of record holders of our common stock at December 31, 2007 was 69,767.  
  The following table summarizes Honeywell s purchases of its common stock, par value $1 per share, for the quarter ending December 31, 2007, under its previously reported $3 billion authorized
  share repurchase program. Honeywell purchased a total of 74,235,000 shares of common stock in 2007:  
   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Honeywell intends to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time in the open market using cash flow generated by operations. The amount and timing of repurchases may vary depending on
  market conditions and the level of other investing activities.  
  18  

Performance Graph   
  The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total return on our Common Stock to the total returns on the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index and a composite of Standard   Poor s Aerospace
  and Defense and Industrial Conglomerates indices, on an equally weighted basis (the  Composite Index ). The selection and weighting of the Aerospace and Defense component of the Composite Index
  was deemed appropriate in light of the fact that Honeywell s Aerospace segment has accounted for, on average, approximately 50% of our aggregate segment profit over the past three completed fiscal
  years. The selection and weighting of the Industrial Conglomerates component of the Composite Index reflects the diverse and distinct range of non-aerospace businesses conducted by Honeywell and
  their contribution to our overall segment profits. The annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph are based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in Honeywell stock and each
  index on December 31, 2002 and that all dividends were reinvested.  
       
  19  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.   
   Item 6.     Selected Financial Data    

(1)   

For the year ended December 31, 2006 shareowners  equity includes a reduction of $1,512 related to the adoption of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
      Postretirement Plans . 

Item 7.     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
  The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial
  condition of Honeywell International Inc. ( Honeywell ) for the three years ended December 31, 2007. All references to Notes relate to Notes to the Financial Statements in  Item 8 Financial Statements and
  Supplementary Data .  
   CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
   Net Sales   

The change in net sales in 2007 and 2006 is attributable to the following:  

A discussion of net sales by segment can be found in the Review of Business Segments section of this MD A.  
  20  

Cost of Products and Services Sold   

Gross margin increased by 0.8 of a percentage point in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to (i) higher margins in our Specialty Materials segment of 1.0 percentage point mainly due to the
  continued growth of UOP, (ii) higher margins in our Aerospace segment of 0.8 of a percentage point mainly resulting from sales volume growth, increased prices and productivity savings, and (iii) lower
  pension and other post retirement benefits expense of 0.3 of a percentage point, which were partially offset by lower margins in our Transportation Systems segment of 1.0 percentage point primarily
  attributable to lower Consumer Products Group ( CPG ) sales volume and operational planning and production issues.  
  Gross margin increased by 1 percentage point in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to higher margins in our Specialty Materials segment following our acquisition of full ownership of UOP (1.3
  percentage points), and lower pension and other postretirement benefits expense of 0.5 of a percentage point, partially offset by higher repositioning costs of 0.2 of a percentage point.  
   For further discussion of segment results, see  Review of Business Segments .  
   Selling, General and Administrative Expenses   

Selling general and administrative expenses (SG A) as a percentage of sales decreased by 0.2 of a percentage point in 2007 compared with 2006. SG A as a percentage of sales decreased in all of
  our segments primarily due to the benefits from cost savings initiatives and the positive impact of prior repositioning actions. A reduction of 0.1 of a percentage point from lower pension and other post
  retirement benefits expense was offset by higher repositioning costs.  
  SG A
    as a percentage of sales was flat in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily
    to a reduction in expenses in our Aerospace segment, which reflects the benefit
    of prior restructuring actions, offsetting higher expenses in Automation
    and Control Solutions (ACS) and Specialty Materials as a result of acquisitions.
    A reduction of repositioning and pension costs of 0.2 of a percentage point
    offset the 0.2 of a percentage point increase for expenses of $77 million
    relating to stock-based compensation expense following the adoption of FAS
    No. 123R (see Note 20 to the financial statements).  
   Other (Income)/Expense   

Other income decreased by $58 million, or 52 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of lower interest income due to interest received on a favorable tax settlement in 2006 and higher
  foreign exchange losses due to changes in exchange rates.  
  21  

Other income decreased by $120 million, or 52 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a $121 million reduction in equity income of affiliated companies primarily related to UOP, following
  our acquisition of full ownership of UOP in November 2005.  
   Interest and Other Financial Charges   

Interest and other financial charges increased by 22 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 and 5 percent in 2006 compared with 2005, due to higher debt balances and higher borrowing costs.  
   Tax Expense   

The effective tax rate increased by 0.7 of a percentage point in 2007 compared with 2006 due principally to the expiration of the tax benefit on export sales, partially offset by a decrease in the overall
  state and foreign effective tax rate, an increase in the tax benefit for the domestic manufacturing deduction, and the favorable resolution of certain tax audits. The effective tax rate was lower than the
  statutory rate of 35 percent due in part to tax benefits derived from lower foreign taxes and benefits from tax planning strategies.  
  The effective tax rate decreased by 6.2 percentage points in 2006 compared with 2005, due principally to the absence of the 2005 one-time tax charge of $155 million for the repatriation of foreign
  earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, offset, in part, by $64 million of tax benefits associated with the 2005 sale of our Industrial Wax business which had a higher tax basis than book
  basis. In addition, in 2006, there were benefits recognized from the favorable resolution of certain tax audits offset by a tax charge for an up-front licensing of certain in-process research and development.
  The effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate of 35 percent due in part to tax benefits derived from export sales, lower foreign taxes, and benefits from tax planning strategies. See Note 6 to the
  financial statements for further information on taxes, including a detailed effective tax rate reconciliation.  
  In 2008, the effective tax rate could change based upon the Company s operating results and the outcome of tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns currently under audit by various
  Federal, State and foreign tax authorities, several of which may be finalized in the foreseeable future. The Company believes that it has adequate reserves for these matters, the outcome of which could
  materially impact the results of operations and operating cash flows in the period that they are resolved.  
   Income From Continuing Operations   

The increase of $0.65 in earnings (diluted) per share from continuing operations in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily relates to an increase in segment profit (most significantly in Aerospace and
  Automation and Control Solutions), a reduction in the number of shares outstanding due to the previously announced stock repurchase program, and lower pension and other post retirement expense,
  partially offset by increased repositioning costs.  
  22  

The increase of $0.67 in earnings (diluted) per share for continuing operations in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily relates to an increase in segment profit in Aerospace and Automation and Control
  Solutions and income generated from our acquisition of full ownership of UOP in Specialty Materials, reduced repositioning and pension costs and a reduction in the number of shares outstanding due to
  the previously announced stock repurchase program, offset by the impact of adopting FAS No. 123R ( Share-Based Payment ) for stock-based compensation expense of $77 million in 2006. In addition, in
  2005 there was a one-time tax charge of $155 million for the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which decreased earnings and earnings per share in 2005.  
  For further discussion of segment results, see  Review of Business Segments .  
   Income From Discontinued Operations   
  Income from discontinued operations of $5 million, or $0.01 earnings per share (diluted) in 2006 relates to the operating results of the Indalex business which was sold in February 2006 to Sun Capital
  Partners, Inc.  
   BUSINESS OVERVIEW   
  This Business Overview provides a summary of Honeywell and its four reportable operating segments (Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions, Specialty Materials and Transportation
  Systems), including their respective areas of focus for 2008 and the relevant economic and other factors impacting their results, and a discussion of each segment s results for the three years ended
  December 31, 2007. Each of these segments is comprised of various product and service classes that serve multiple end markets. See Note 23 to the financial statements for further information on our
  reportable segments and our definition of segment profit.  
   Economic and Other Factors   
  In addition to the factors listed below with respect to each of our operating segments, our consolidated operating results are principally driven by:  

Global economic growth rates (US, Europe and emerging regions);   

Overall sales mix, in particular the mix of Aerospace original equipment and aftermarket sales and the mix of Automation and Control Solutions products and services sales;   

The extent to which cost savings from productivity actions are able to offset or exceed the impact of material and non-material inflation;   

The impact of the pension discount rate on pension expense; and   

The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rate, particularly the US dollar-Euro exchange rate.  

Areas of Focus for 2008   
  The areas of focus for 2008, which are generally applicable to each of our operating segments, include:  

Driving profitable growth by building innovative products that address customer needs;   

Achieving sales growth, technological excellence and manufacturing capability through global expansion, especially focused on emerging regions in China, India and the Middle East;   

Continuing to grow through disciplined acquisition and rigorous integration processes;   

Proactively managing raw material cost increases with formula and long term fixed price agreements, price increases and hedging activities, where feasible;   

Driving free cash flow through increased net income and effective working capital management enabling continued investment in our businesses, strategic acquisitions, and enabling us to return
      value to shareholders through share repurchases and increased dividend payments;  

23  

Utilizing our enablers Honeywell Operating System (HOS), Functional Transformation and Velocity Product Development (VPD)       to standardize the way we work, increase quality and reduce the
      costs of product manufacturing, reduce costs and enhance the quality of our administrative functions and improve business operations through investments in systems and process improvements;    

Managing Corporate costs, including costs incurred for asbestos and environmental matters, pension and other post-retirement expenses and our tax expense; and   

Achieving productivity savings and price increases to offset inflation.  

Review of Business Segments   

A reconciliation of segment profit to income from continuing operations before taxes follows:  

(1)   

Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. 

Aerospace   
   Overview   
  Aerospace is a leading global supplier of aircraft engines, avionics, and related products and services for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, aircraft operators, military services, and defense and space
  contractors. Our Aerospace products and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental control systems, engine controls, flight safety, communications, navigation, radar and
  surveillance systems, aircraft lighting, management and technical services, advanced systems and instruments, aircraft wheels and brakes and repair and overhaul services. Aerospace sells its products to
  original equipment (OE) manufacturers in the air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft segments, and provides spare parts and repair and maintenance services for the aftermarket  
  24  

(principally to aircraft operators). The United States Government is also a major customer for our defense and space products.  
   Economic and Other Factors   
  Aerospace operating results are principally driven by:  

Global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, as well as the demand for spare parts and maintenance and repair services for aircraft currently in use;   

Aircraft production by commercial air transport, regional jet, business and general aviation OE manufacturers, as well as global flying hours and airline profitability; and   

Level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs and military activity; and   

Availability and price volatility of raw materials such as titanium and other metals.  

Results of Operations   

Aerospace sales by major customer end-markets were as follows:  

Aerospace sales increased by 10 percent and 6 percent in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Details regarding the net increase in sales by customer end-markets for both 2007 and 2006 are as follows:  

Air transport and regional original equipment (OE) sales increased by 10 percent in 2007 and 14 percent in 2006 driven by increased deliveries to air transport customers primarily due to higher
      aircraft production rates at major OE manufacturers.   

Air transport and regional aftermarket sales increased by 8 percent in 2007 and 4 percent in 2006. The 2007 increase was a result of increased sales volume and price of spare parts and
      maintenance activity relating to the approximately 6 percent increase in global flying hours. The 2006 increase over 2005 was a result of increased sales of spare parts and maintenance activity
      relating to a more than 5 percent increase in global flying hours which more than offset the anticipated decline in the sales of upgrades and retrofits of avionics equipment to meet certain mandated
      regulatory standards.   

Business and general aviation OE sales increased by 16 percent in both 2007 and 2006 due to continued demand in the business jet end market as evidenced by an increase in new business jet
      deliveries, as well as the launch of new aircraft platforms in 2007 and high demand in the fractional ownership market in 2006. In both 2007 and 2006, sales to this end-market primarily    

25  

consisted of sales of Primus Epic integrated avionics systems and the TFE 731 and HTF 7000 engines.   

Business and general aviation aftermarket sales increased by 16 percent in 2007 and 1 percent in 2006. The 2007 increase was primarily due to increased revenue under maintenance service
      agreements and higher sales of spare parts. The 2006 increase over 2005 was primarily due to higher sales of spare parts and increased maintenance activity resulting in part from higher engine
      utilization, partially offset by lower sales of mandated upgrades and retrofits of avionics equipment required in 2005 to meet certain mandated regulatory standards.   

Defense and space sales increased by 8 percent in 2007 and 3 percent in 2006. The 2007 increase was primarily due to, higher sales of surface systems, a 2 percent positive impact of the
      acquisition of Dimensions International (a defense logistics business) and an increase in space sales, including engineering activity relating to the Orion (CEV) program. The 2006 increase over
      2005 was primarily due to higher sales of surface systems and sales of spare parts for helicopters that offset lower volume of space sales due to delays in project funding.  

Aerospace segment profit increased by 16 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 due primarily to sales volume growth, increased prices and productivity, partially offset by inflation.  
  Segment profit increased by 13 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to sales volume growth, increased prices and productivity savings (including benefits from prior restructuring actions)
  that were partially offset by inflation and the impact of stronger OE sales that typically have lower margins than aftermarket sales.  
   2008 Areas of Focus   
  Aerospace s primary areas of focus for 2008 include:  

Continuing to grow the sales and profitability of the commercial aerospace aftermarket in the highly competitive and cost focused airline industry;   

Securing Honeywell product content on new aircraft platforms;   

Continuing to design equipment that enhances the safety, performance and durability of aerospace and defense equipment, while reducing weight and operating costs;   

Developing differentiated, affordable products and services for the defense and space end-market; and   

Delivering world-class customer service and enhancing the customer service experience.  

Automation and Control Solutions (ACS)   
   Overview   
  ACS provides innovative solutions that make homes, buildings, industrial sites, airport facilities and infrastructure more efficient, safe and comfortable. Our ACS products and services include controls
  for heating, cooling, indoor air quality, ventilation, humidification, lighting and home automation; advanced software applications for home/building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control
  systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow, temperature and electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; access control; video surveillance; remote patient monitoring systems;
  products for automatic identification and data collection, installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems that keep buildings safe, comfortable and productive; and automation and control solutions for
  industrial plants, including advanced software and automation systems that integrate, control and monitor complex processes in many types of industrial settings.  
   Economic and Other Factors   
  ACS s operating results are principally driven by:  

The growth of global commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades);   

Demand for residential security and environmental control retrofits and upgrades;  

26  

Industrial production;   

U.S. and European economic conditions;   

Economic growth rates in emerging markets;   

The strength of capital spending on process (including petrochemical and refining) and building automation; and   

Changes to energy, fire, security, health care, safety and environmental concerns and regulations.  

Results of Operations   

ACS sales increased by 13 percent in 2007 compared with 2006, including 4 percent favorable impact of foreign exchange and net growth from acquisitions and divestitures of 2 percent.  

Sales in our Products businesses grew by 11 percent, driven by (i) increased sales of security products primarily due to growth in intrusion products, European distribution sales and emerging
      markets, (ii) continued strong demand for life safety products and (iii) introduction of new environmental and combustion control products.   

Sales in our Solutions businesses increased by 17 percent with growth in all regions, driven by energy retrofit and refining services projects, global infrastructure expansion, continued growth in
      orders and conversion to sales from our order backlog, as well as the favorable impact of foreign exchange.  

ACS sales increased by 17 percent in 2006 compared with 2005, including 7 percent net impact from acquisitions and divestitures.  

Sales grew by 19 percent in our Products businesses, due to 11 percent net impact from acquisitions and divestitures, as well as strong customer demand for new products in our security and life
      safety products and increased sales to customers in emerging markets for environmental, combustion, sensing and control products.   

Sales in our Solutions businesses increased by 14 percent driven by continued strong orders growth, strong conversion to sales from our order backlog and increased sales in emerging markets and
      strong revenue from energy projects and 3 percent net impact from acquisitions net of divestitures.   

Sales from acquisitions, net of divestitures, increased by 7 percent in 2006 compared with 2005, largely representing revenues in ACS products businesses relating to NOVAR (primarily
      environmental, combustion, building controls and life safety products) for the first quarter of 2006, Zellweger (gas detection) for the first two quarters of 2006 and revenues from our Gardiner Groupe
      (security distribution) and First Technology (gas detection) acquisitions in the last three quarters of 2006.  

ACS segment profit increased by 15 percent in 2007 compared with 2006 principally due to increased Products and Solutions sales volume and productivity savings, partially offset by inflation. We
  continue to experience a change in mix resulting from stronger sales growth in our Solutions businesses that historically have lower margins than our Products businesses.  
  ACS segment profit increased by 15 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due principally to increased sales volume and productivity savings (including net integration savings from our acquisitions)
  that more than offset continued inflation. Segment profit was also negatively impacted in 2006 by a contract loss experienced on a Building Solutions project, and by ERP implementation costs.  
  27  

2008 Areas of Focus   
  ACS s primary areas of focus for 2008 include:  

Extending technology leadership: lowest total installed cost and integrated product solutions;   

Defending and extending our installed base through customer productivity and globalization;   

Sustaining strong brand recognition through our brand and channel management;   

Centralization and standardization of global software development capabilities;   

Acquisition execution and integration; and   

Continuing to establish emerging markets presence and capability.  

Specialty Materials   
   Overview   
  Specialty Materials develops and manufactures high-purity, high-quality and high-performance chemicals and materials for applications in the automotive, healthcare, agricultural, packaging, carpet
  fibers, refrigeration, appliance, housing, semiconductor, wax and adhesives segments. Specialty Materials also provides process technology, products and services for the petroleum refining,
  petrochemical and other industries. Specialty Materials  product portfolio includes fluorocarbons, caprolactam, ammonium sulfate for fertilizer, specialty films, advanced fibers, customized research
  chemicals and intermediates, electronic materials and chemicals, catalysts, and adsorbents.  
   Economic and Other Factors   
  Specialty Materials operating results are principally driven by:  

Level of investment in refining and petrochemical capacity, utilization and/or expansion,   

Degree of pricing volatility in raw materials such as benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene and sulfur;   

Impact of environmental and energy efficiency regulations;   

Extent of change in order rates from global semiconductor customers;   

Global demand for non-ozone depleting Hydro fluorocarbons (HFC  and   

Condition of the US residential housing industry.  

Results of Operations   

Specialty Materials sales increased by 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 driven by (i) a 16 percent increase in UOP sales primarily as a result of higher volume in its projects business principally
  due to capacity expansion in the refining and petrochemical industries and (ii) a 4 percent increase in Specialty Products sales due in large part to increased sales of electronic chemicals and specialty
  additives and higher sales to customers in the health care industry. Partially offsetting these increases was a 6 percent decrease in Fluorine Products sales primarily due to lower refrigerant pricing and
  lower sales volume of foam blowing agents used in insulating material as a result of continued weakness in the U.S. housing market.  
  Specialty Materials sales increased by 43 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 due to organic sales growth of 7 percent and 36 percent growth due to our UOP acquisition, net of divestitures.  
  28  

Organic growth was 7 percent in 2006 primarily due to higher volume and prices. Organic sales in our Fluorine Products business increased by 9 percent due to continued strong demand for non-
  ozone depleting HFC products, and organic growth in our Resins and Chemicals business was 4 percent, primarily due to price increases to recover increased raw material costs. Both of these businesses
  experienced lower sales growth in the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the slowdown in the US residential housing industry. Our Resins and Chemicals business was also negatively impacted by a partial
  facility outage in the second half of 2006. Specialty Products organic sales increased by 10 percent due to higher sales to our customers in the semiconductor industry and increased sales of our specialty
  additives and our advanced fiber body armor. In 2005, organic sales increased by 4 percent, largely as a result of higher prices of 7 percent primarily in our Resins and Chemicals and Fluorine businesses,
  offsetting lower volumes in Specialty Products businesses.  
  Sales from acquisitions, net of divestitures grew by 36 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. This was due to a 44 percent growth in sales from UOP, which was consolidated into the Specialty Materials
  segment following our acquisition of the remaining 50 percent interest in UOP in November 2005. Prior to that date, UOP results were included in other income. UOP sales have grown due to continued
  strength in the petrochemical and refining industries. This growth was offset by the loss of sales of 8 percent principally from the divestiture of our Industrial Wax and North American Nylon Fiber
  businesses.  
  Specialty
    Materials segment profit increased by 16 percent in 2007 compared with 2006
    principally due to increased UOP and Specialty Products sales partially offset
    by the decline in Fluorine Products sales as a result of the factors discussed
    above. Additionally, the effects of increased pricing and productivity more
    than offset raw material and other cost inflation.  
  Specialty Materials segment profit increased by 121 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due principally to the impact of the UOP acquisition, net of divestitures, and increased organic growth and
  productivity savings (net of the lost margin from the partial facility outage). Price increases (including benefits from formula based pricing contracts) offset the impact of continued inflation in raw material
  costs.  
   2008 Areas of Focus   
  Specialty Materials primary areas of focus for 2008 include:  

Improving plant operational performance;   

Increasing resources and market penetration in emerging regions;   

Developing new products that address energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, global warming and security regulations;   

Increasing product differentiation;   

Continued contract wins and development of new process technologies and products in the petrochemical and refining industries; and   

Achieving productivity savings and pricing actions to offset inflation.  

Transportation Systems   
   Overview   
  Transportation Systems provides automotive products that improve the performance, efficiency, and appearance of cars, trucks, and other vehicles through state-of-the-art technologies, world class
  brands and global solutions to customers  needs. Transportation Systems  products include turbochargers and charge-air and thermal systems; car care products including anti-freeze (Prestone(R)), filters
  (Fram(R)), spark plugs (Autolite(R)), and cleaners, waxes and additives (Holts(R)); and brake hard parts and other friction materials (Bendix(R) and Jurid(R)). Transportation Systems sells its products to
  OE automotive and truck manufacturers (e.g., BMW, Caterpillar, Daimler, Renault, Ford, and Volkswagen), wholesalers and distributors and through the retail aftermarket.  
  29  

Economic and Other Factors   
  Transportation Systems operating results are principally driven by:  

Global demand for automobile and truck production;   

Diesel penetration rates for new engine platforms;   

Global consumer preferences for boosted diesel passenger cars;   

Degree of volatility in raw material prices, including nickel and steel;   

Changes in consumer spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products; and   

Regulations mandating lower emissions and improved fuel economy.  

Results of Operations   

Transportation Systems sales increased 9 percent in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily due to the 5 percent favorable impact of foreign exchange and increased Turbo Technologies sales volume.  

Turbo Technologies sales increased by 12 percent primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange and strong sales to European light vehicle manufacturers, resulting from increased
      production and diesel penetration rates, as well as sales related to the launch of new turbo platforms by these customers, partially offset by lower sales to commercial vehicle engine manufacturers.   

Consumer Products Group ( CPG ) sales increased by 4 percent primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange and higher prices (primarily to pass through ethylene glycol cost
      increases). This higher pricing was offset by lower sales volume, primarily due to continued softness in the US automotive aftermarket.  

Transportation Systems sales increased 2 percent in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to increased Turbo Technologies sales, offset by lower CPG sales.  

Turbo Technologies sales increased by 6 percent primarily due to new product introductions in Europe and Asia, a slight increase in diesel penetration in Europe and relatively flat sales in the U.S.   

CPG sales decreased by 4 percent as a result of reduced consumer spending in North America on automotive aftermarket products and our exit from the North America Friction Materials OE
      business.  

Transportation System segment profit increased by 2 percent in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to increased productivity, increased prices and lower warranty expense partially offset by the
  impact of inflation (primarily relating to nickel components), investment in product development to support future Turbo platforms, costs associated with CPG product introductions and CPG operational
  planning and production issues.  
  Transportation Systems segment profit increased by 3 percent in 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to increased Turbo Technologies volume and productivity savings including the benefits of
  prior year restructuring actions, which offset higher material and labor inflation and increased warranty expense.  
   2008 Areas of Focus   
  Transportation Systems primary areas of focus in 2008 include:  

Sustaining superior turbocharger technology through successful platform launches; 

30  

Increasing global penetration and share of diesel and gasoline turbocharger OEM demand;   

Further global expansion and extension of established strong product brands in CPG; and   

Addressing CPG operational planning and production issues.  

Repositioning and Other Charges   
  A summary of repositioning and other charges follows:  

The following table summarizes the pretax distribution of total net repositioning and other charges by income statement classification.  

The following tables provide details of the pretax impact of total net repositioning and other charges by segment.  

31  

In 2007, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $209 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 3,408 manufacturing and administrative positions mainly in our
  Automation and Control Solutions and Aerospace segments. Also, $18 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Transportation Systems and Aerospace segments, were
  returned to income in 2007 due mainly to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs and due to fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with prior
  severance programs.  
  In 2006, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $124 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 2,253 manufacturing and administrative positions across all of our
  segments. Also, $22 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Aerospace, Transportation Systems and Specialty Materials segments, were returned to income in 2006 due
  mainly to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs and due to fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with prior Aerospace severance actions.  
  In 2005, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $267 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 5,269 maufacturing and administrative positions across all of our
  segments including the implementation of a new organizational structure in our Aerospace segment (substantially implemented in the third quarter of 2005) which reorganized our Aerospace businesses to
  better align with customer segments. Also, $25 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Corporate, Specialty Materials and Automation and Control Solutions segments
  were returned to income in 2005. The reversal of severance liabilities related to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs, excise taxes related to an executive severance amount
  previously paid which were determined to no longer be payable, and severance amounts previously  
  32  

paid to an outside service provider as part of an outsourcing arrangement which were refunded to Honeywell.  
  These repositioning actions are expected to generate incremental pretax savings of approximately $100 million in 2008 compared with 2007 principally from planned workforce reductions. Cash
  expenditures for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute our repositioning actions were $92, $142 and $171 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Such expenditures for severance
  and other exit costs have been funded principally through operating cash flows. Cash expenditures for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute the remaining actions will approximate $150
  million in 2008 and will be funded through operating cash flows.  
  In 2007, we recognized a charge of $225 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
  insurance, of $100 million which are discussed in Note 21 to the financial statements. We recognized other charges of $18 million for a business sales tax related to a prior divestiture ($8 million) and for
  contemplated settlements of certain legal matters ($10 million). We also recognized impairment charges of $9 million related to the write-down of property, plant and equipment held for sale in our
  Specialty Materials segment.  
  In 2006, we recognized a charge of $210 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
  insurance, of $126 million which are discussed in Note 21 to the financial statements. We recognized other charges of $51 million related to our Corporate segment primarily for the settlement of a property
  damage claim litigation matter in Brunswick, GA and our entrance into a plea agreement related to an environmental matter at our Baton Rouge, LA. facility. We recognized impairment charges of $12
  million related to the write-down of property, plant and equipment held for sale in our Specialty Materials segment. We also recognized a credit of $18 million in connection with an arbitration award for
  overcharges by a supplier of phenol to our Specialty Materials business for 2005 transactions.  
  In 2005, we recognized a charge of $186 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
  insurance, of $10 million which are discussed in Note 21 to the financial statements. We recognized a credit of $67 million in connection with an arbitration award for overcharges by a supplier of phenol to
  our Specialty Materials business from June 2003 through the end of 2004. We recognized impairment charges of $23 million related to the write-down of property, plant and equipment held and used in our
  Specialty Materials segment. We also recognized other charges of $18 million principally related to the modification of a lease agreement for the Corporate headquarters facility ($10 million) and for
  various legal settlements ($7 million).  
  33  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   
  The Company continues to manage its businesses to maximize operating cash flows as the primary source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of
  liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper market, long-term borrowings, and access to the public debt and equity markets, as well as the ability to sell trade
  accounts receivables. We continue to balance our cash and financing uses through investment in our existing core businesses, acquisition activity, share repurchases and dividends.  
   Cash Flow Summary   
  Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized
  as follows:  

Cash provided by operating activities increased by $700 million during 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to increased earnings, an increase in accrued liabilities of $349 million (primarily
  compensation, benefits and other employee related accruals, as well as customer advances and deferred income), a $55 million decrease in repositioning payments partially offset by decreased deferred
  income tax expense of $118 million and increased working capital usage of $68 million (accounts and other receivables, inventory and accounts payable). Cash provided by operating activities increased
  by $769 million during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to increased earnings, lower cash payments for asbestos of $331 million, receipt of $100 million from the sale of an insurance receivable, an
  increase in customer advances and deferred income (net of acquisitions) of $115 million, and $93 million receipt of an arbitration award relating to Specialty Materials, partially offset by increased working
  capital usage (accounts and other receivables (net of tax receivables), inventory and accounts payable) of $263 million (including proceeds of $58 million from the sale of a long-term receivable), higher
  cash tax payments (net of tax receipts) of $236 million and higher pension and postretirement payments of $154 million.  
  Cash used for investing activities increased by $1,168 million during 2007 compared with 2006 due primarily to higher spending for acquisitions, and lower proceeds from sales of businesses. In 2007,
  cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired was $1,150 million primarily for Dimensions International, Enraf Holding B.V., Hand Held Products, Inc, and Maxon Corporation, compared to $633 million in
  2006, primarily for our acquisitions of First Technologies and Gardiner Groupe. Sale proceeds from divestitures was $51 million in the 2007, compared to $665 million in 2006 primarily due to the sale of
  Indalex in February 2006 for $425 million, First Technology Safety   Analysis business (FTSA) for $93 million in May 2006 and the sale of First Technology Automotive Business in December 2006 for $90
  million. Cash used for investing activities decreased by $1,396 million during 2006 compared with 2005 due primarily to lower spending for acquisitions, partially offset by lower proceeds of $285 million
  from maturities of investment securities.  
  Cash used for financing activities decreased by $1,075 million during 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to a $2,620 million increase in net proceeds from debt (including commercial paper and
  short term borrowings), a $306 million reduction in cash used for payment of debt assumed with acquisitions, and an increase in proceeds from issuance of common stock primarily related to stock option
  exercises of $207 million; partially offset by increases in repurchases of common stock of $2,090 million. Cash used for financing activities decreased by $67 million during 2006 compared 2005, primarily
  due to a reduction for payment of debt assumed with acquisition of $356 million,  
  34  

increased net proceeds from debt of $258 million, and increased proceeds from issuance of common stock primarily related to stock option exercises of $229 million, offset by increase in repurchases of
  common stock of $763 million and increased dividend payments.  
   Liquidity   
  Each of our businesses is focused on implementing strategies to improve working capital turnover in 2008 to increase operating cash flows. Considering the current economic environment in which
  each of our businesses operate and our business plans and strategies, including our focus on growth, cost reduction and productivity initiatives, we believe that our cash balances and operating cash flows
  will remain our principal source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short term debt from the commercial
  paper markets, long-term borrowings, and access to the public debt and equity markets, as well as our ability to sell trade accounts receivables.  
  A source of liquidity is our ability to issue short-term debt in the commercial paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity of not more than 270 days from date of
  issuance. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well as for financing potential acquisitions. There was $1,756 million of commercial paper
  outstanding at December 31, 2007.  
  Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and our $3.0 billion of committed bank revolving credit
  facilities (Revolving Credit Facilities). Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent debt-rating agencies. In 2007, Standard and Poor s, Fitch s and Moody s Rating Services
  affirmed their corporate ratings on our long-term debt of A and A+ and A2 respectively, and short-term debt of A-1, F1 and P-1 respectively, and maintained Honeywell s ratings outlook as  stable .  
  In March 2007, the Company issued $400 million of 5.30% Senior Notes due 2017 and $600 million 5.70% Senior Notes due 2037 (collectively, the  Notes ). The Notes are senior unsecured and
  unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior unsecured debt and senior to all Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering resulted in gross
  proceeds of $1 billion, offset by $12 million in discount and issuance costs. Proceeds from the Notes were used to repay commercial paper and debt.  
  In May 2007 Honeywell entered into a $2.8 billion Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement ( Credit Agreement ) with a syndicate of banks. Commitments under the Credit Agreement can
  be increased pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement to an aggregated amount not to exceed $3.5 billion. This credit facility contains a $700 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The
  Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance of commercial paper and replaces the previous $2.3 billion five year credit agreement dated April 27,
  2006 ( Prior Agreement ). At December 31, 2007, there were no borrowings or letters of credit issued under the credit facility. The Credit Agreement does not restrict Honeywell s ability to pay dividends,
  nor does it contain financial covenants.  
  In July 2007, the Company issued $500 million Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009 and $400 million 5.625% Senior Notes due 2012 (collectively, the  Senior Notes ). The Senior Notes are senior
  unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior unsecured debt and senior to all Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering
  resulted in gross proceeds of $900 million, offset by $3 million in discount and issuance costs. Proceeds from the Senior Notes were used to repay commercial paper.  
  We also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue additional debt securities, common stock and preferred stock that
  may be offered in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of the offering. Net proceeds of any offering would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing
  indebtedness, capital expenditures and acquisitions.  
  We also sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties. The sold receivables were over-collateralized by $101 million at December 31, 2007 and we retain a  
  35  

subordinated interest in the pool of receivables representing that over-collateralization as well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. New receivables are sold under the
  agreement as previously sold receivables are collected. The retained interests in the receivables are reflected at the amounts expected to be collected by us, and such carrying value approximates the fair
  value of our retained interests. The sold receivables were $500 million at both December 31, 2007 and 2006.  
  In addition to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends, employee benefit obligations,
  environmental remediation costs, asbestos claims, severance and exit costs related to repositioning actions, share repurchases and any strategic acquisitions.  
  Specifically, we expect our primary cash requirements in 2008 to be as follows:  

Capital expenditures we expect to spend approximately $900 million for capital expenditures in 2008 primarily for growth, replacement, production capacity expansion, cost reduction and
      maintenance.   

Debt repayments there are $418 million of scheduled long-term debt maturities in 2008. We expect to refinance substantially all of these maturities in the debt capital markets during 2008.   

Share repurchases We intend to continue to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time in the open market principally using cash generated from operations. Under the Company s previously
      announced $3.0 billion share repurchase program, $2.7 billion remained available as of December 31, 2007 for additional share repurchases. The amount and timing of repurchases may vary
      depending on market conditions and the level of other investing activities.   

Dividends we expect to pay approximately $800 million in dividends on our common stock in 2008, reflecting the 10 percent increase in the dividend rate announced by Honeywell s Board of
      Directors in December 2007.   

Asbestos claims we expect our cash spending for asbestos claims and our cash receipts for related insurance recoveries to be approximately $244 and $44 million, respectively, in 2008. See
      Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for further discussion.   

Pension contributions assuming that actual pension plan returns are consistent with our expected rate of return of 9 percent in 2008 and beyond and that interest rates remain constant, we would not
      be required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we expect to make voluntary contributions of
      approximately $40 million to our U.S. pension plans in 2008 for government contracting purposes. We also expect to make contributions to our non-U.S. plans of approximately $125 million in 2008.
      See Note 22 to the financial statements for further discussion of pension contributions.   

Repositioning actions we expect that cash spending for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute the remaining repositioning actions will approximate $150 million in 2008.   

Environmental remediation costs we expect to spend approximately $300 million in 2008 for remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs. See Environmental Matters in Note 21 to the financial
      statements for additional information.  

We continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify
  business units that will most benefit from increased investment. We identify acquisition candidates that will further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also identify
  businesses that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or
  other repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints. In 2007, we realized $51 million in cash proceeds from sales of non-strategic businesses.  
  Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future cash needs. Our available cash, committed credit lines, access to
  the public debt and equity markets as well as our ability to sell trade accounts receivables, provide  
  36  

additional sources of short-term and long-term liquidity to fund current operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities. Based on our current financial position and expected economic
  performance, we do not believe that our liquidity will be adversely impacted by an inability to access our sources of financing.  
   Contractual Obligations and Probable Liability Payments   
  Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability payments at December 31, 2007:  

(1)   

Assumes all long-term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity.   

(2)   

Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the normal course of business and are consistent with our expected requirements.   

(3)   

The payment amounts in the table only reflect the environmental liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2007. See Environmental Matters in Note 21 to the
      financial statements for additional information.   

(4)   

These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for NARCO and Bendix based on our asbestos related liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31,
      2007. NARCO estimated payments are based on the terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, specified in the definitive agreements or agreements in principle and pursuant to Trust
      Distribution Procedures. Bendix payments are based on our estimate of pending and future claims. Projecting future events is subject to many uncertainties that could cause asbestos liabilities to be
      higher or lower than those projected and recorded. See Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for additional information.   

(5)   

These amounts represent probable insurance recoveries through 2018 based on our insurance recoveries that are deemed probable for asbestos related liabilities as of December 31, 2007. See
      Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for additional information.  

The table excludes $666 million of uncertain tax positions. See Note 6 to the financial statements.  
  The table also excludes our pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) obligations. We made voluntary contributions of $42 and $68 million to our U.S. pension plans in 2007 and 2006,
  respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with our expected plan return of 9 percent in
  2008 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, we would not be required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements for the
  foreseeable future. We expect to make voluntary contributions of approximately $40 million to our U.S. plans in 2008 for government contracting purposes. We expect to make contributions to our non-U.S.
  plans of approximately $125 million in 2008. Payments due under our OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and
  are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under our plans. We expect our OPEB payments to approximate $206 million in 2008 net of the benefit of approximately $15
  million   
  37  

from the Medicare prescription subsidy. See Note 22 to the financial statements for further discussion of our pension and OPEB plans.  
   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   
  Following is a summary of our off-balance sheet arrangements:  
    Guarantees   We have issued or are a party to the following direct and indirect guarantees at December 31, 2007:  

Maximum Potential Future Payments    

(Dollars in millions)    

Operating lease residual values   

$   

39   

Other third parties  financing   

4   

Unconsolidated affiliates  financing   

3   

Customer financing   

23   

$   

69   

We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  
  In connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of environmental contamination, if any, existing on the
  date of disposition. Such expected costs are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.  
    Retained Interests in Factored Pools of Trade Accounts Receivables   As a source of liquidity, we sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties. The sold
  receivables ($500 million at December 31, 2007) are over-collateralized and we retain a subordinated interest in the pool of receivables representing that over-collateralization as well as an undivided
  interest in the balance of the receivables pools. The over-collateralization provides credit support to the purchasers of the receivable interest by limiting their losses in the event that a portion of the
  receivables sold becomes uncollectible. At December 31, 2007, our retained subordinated and undivided interests at risk were $101 and $721 million, respectively. Based on the underlying credit quality of
  the receivables placed into the designated pools of receivables being sold, we do not expect that any losses related to our retained interests at risk will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
  results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  
   Environmental Matters   
  We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and
  procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances are in
  accordance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like other companies engaged in similar
  businesses, have incurred remedial response and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past
  production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future.  
  With
    respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually
    conduct studies, individually or jointly with other potentially responsible
    parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial techniques to address
    environmental matters. It is our policy (see Note 1 to the financial statements)
    to record appropriate liabilities for environmental matters when remedial
    efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the costs can be reasonably
    estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of the undiscounted
    future costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded liabilities
  are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional  
  38  

technical or legal information becomes available. Given the uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement policies, the impact of other potentially responsible parties, technology and
  information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental loss in excess of our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund
  expenditures for these matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a number of factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability, personal
  injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreements with other parties.  
  Remedial response and voluntary cleanup payments were $267, $264 and $247 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and are currently estimated to be approximately $300 million in 2008.
  We expect to fund such expenditures from operating cash flow.  
  Remedial response and voluntary cleanup costs charged against pretax earnings were $230, $210 and $186 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
  recorded liabilities for environmental matters was $799 and $831 million, respectively. In addition, in 2007 and 2006 we incurred operating costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $81 and $101
  million, respectively, relating to compliance with environmental regulations.  
  Although we do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably estimate the amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of studies, litigation or settlements, and neither the
  timing nor the amount of the ultimate costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they could be material to our consolidated results of operations or operating cash flows in the periods
  recognized or paid. However, considering our past experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that environmental matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.  
  See Note 21 to the financial statements for a discussion of our commitments and contingencies, including those related to environmental matters and toxic tort litigation.  
   Financial Instruments   
  As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely
  affect our operating results and financial position. We minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations through our normal operating and financing
  activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and do not use
  leveraged derivative financial instruments. A summary of our accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included in Note 1 to the financial statements.  
  We conduct our business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign currencies. Our exposure to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates arises from international
  financing activities between subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and anticipated transactions arising from international trade. Our objective is to preserve the
  economic value of non-functional currency cash flows. We attempt to hedge transaction exposures with natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted,
  through foreign currency forward and option agreements with third parties. Our principal currency exposures relate to the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Mexican peso,
  Swiss franc, Czech koruna, Chinese renminbi and Japanese yen.  
  Our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates relates primarily to our net debt and pension obligations. As described in Notes 14 and 16 to the financial statements, we issue both fixed
  and variable rate debt and use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate movements and reduce overall borrowing costs.  
  Financial instruments, including derivatives, expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest or currency exchange rates. We manage our
  exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our counterparties are substantial
  investment and commercial banks with significant experience using such derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value and expected future cash flows of  
  39  

our derivative and other financial instruments considering reasonably possible changes in interest and currency exchange rates and restrict the use of derivative financial instruments to hedging activities.  
  The following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate one-percentage-point increase in interest rates across all
  maturities, the potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities,
  and the potential change in fair value of contracts hedging commodity purchases based on a 20 percent decrease in the price of the underlying commodity across all maturities at December 31, 2007 and
  2006.  

(1)   

Asset or (liability).   

(2)   

Changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of underlying hedged foreign currency transactions.   

(3)   

Changes in the fair value of forward commodity contracts are offset by changes in the cash flows of underlying hedged commodity transactions.  

The above discussion of our procedures to monitor market risk and the estimated changes in fair value resulting from our sensitivity analyses are forward-looking statements of market risk assuming
  certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. The methods used by us
  to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future events.  
   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES   
  The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and application of accounting policies that require us to
  make significant estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to the understanding of our
  financial statements. Actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements.  
  We have discussed the selection, application and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our Independent Registered Public
  Accountants. New accounting standards effective in 2007 which had a material impact on our  
  40  

consolidated financial statements are described in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements section in Note 1 to the financial statements.  
    Contingent Liabilities   We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our global business
  operations or those of previously owned entities. These contingencies primarily relate to product liabilities (including asbestos), contractual matters, and environmental, health and safety matters. We
  recognize a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well
  as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if
  applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of
  pending and future asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new
  developments (including new discovery of fact, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. For a
  discussion of our contingencies related to environmental, asbestos and other matters, including management s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, see Notes 1 and
  21 to the financial statements.  
    Asbestos Related Contingencies and Insurance Recoveries   We are a defendant in personal injury actions related to products containing asbestos (refractory and friction products). We recognize a
  liability for any asbestos related contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. Regarding North American Refractories Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we accrue for
  pending claims based on terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, in definitive agreements or agreements in principle with current claimants. We also accrued for the probable value of
  future NARCO asbestos related claims through 2018 based on the disease criteria and payment values contained in the NARCO trust as described in Note 21 to the financial statements. In light of the
  inherent uncertainties in making long term projections regarding claims filing rates and disease manifestation, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating NARCO asbestos claims
  beyond 2018 under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  (SFAS No. 5). Regarding Bendix asbestos related claims, we accrue for the estimated value of
  pending claims based on expected claim resolution values and historic dismissal rates. Since the fourth quarter of 2006, we also accrue for the estimated cost of future anticipated claims related to Bendix
  for the next five years based on our assessment of additional claims that may be brought against us and anticipated resolution values in the tort system. In December 2006, we also changed our
  methodology for valuing Bendix pending and future claims from using average resolution values for the previous five years to using average resolution values for the previous two years. The claims filing
  experience and resolution data for Bendix related claims has become more reliable over the past several years. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we updated our methodology for valuing Bendix
  pending and future claims using the average resolution values for the past three years. We will continue to updated the expected resolution values used to estimate the cost of pending and future Bendix
  claims during the fourth quarter each year. For additional information see Note 21 to the financial statements. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our
  contingencies, as well as potential ranges of probable losses and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on an analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside legal
  counsel and, if applicable, other experts.  
  In connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In assessing the probability of insurance
  recovery, we make judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our historical experience with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent solvency
  issues surrounding insurers, various judicial determinations relevant to our insurance programs and our consideration of the impacts of any settlements with our insurers. At December 31, 2007, we have
  recorded insurance receivables of $939 million that can be specifically allocated to NARCO related asbestos liabilities. We also have $1.9 billion in coverage remaining for Bendix related asbestos  
  41  

liabilities although there are gaps in our coverage due to insurance company insolvencies, certain uninsured periods and insurance settlements, resulting in approximately 50 percent of these claims on a
  cumulative historical basis being reimbursable by insurance. Our insurance is with both the domestic insurance market and the London excess market. While the substantial majority of our insurance
  carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. Projecting future events is subject to various uncertainties that could
  cause the insurance recovery on asbestos related liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and recorded. Given the inherent uncertainty in making future projections, we reevaluate our
  projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries in light of any changes to the projected liability, our recovery experience or other relevant factors that may impact future insurance recoveries.
  See Note 21 to the financial statements for a discussion of management s judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of insurance recoveries for asbestos related liabilities.  
    Defined Benefit Pension Plans   We
    maintain defined benefit pension plans covering a majority of our employees
    and retirees. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension expense
    is calculated based upon a number of significant actuarial assumptions, including
    a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected long-term rate of return
    on plan assets. We determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan
    assets utilizing historic and expected plan asset returns over varying long-term
    periods combined with current market conditions and broad asset mix considerations
    (see Note 22 to the financial statements for actual and targeted asset allocation
  percentages for our pension plans). The discount rate reflects the market rate
    on December 31 (measurement date) for high-quality fixed-income investments
    with maturities corresponding to our benefit obligations and is subject to
    change each year. Further information on all our major actuarial assumption
  is included in Note 22 to the financial statements.  
  The key assumptions used in developing our 2007, 2006 and 2005 net periodic pension expense for our U.S. plans included the following:  

The discount rate can be volatile from year to year because it is determined based upon the prevailing rate as of the measurement date. We will use a 6.50 percent discount rate in 2008, reflecting the
  increase in the market interest rate environment. We plan to continue to use an expected rate of return on plan assets of 9 percent for 2008 based principally on our historical experience of actual plan
  returns. The net losses for our pension plans were $1.7 billion at December 31, 2007 compared with $2.4 billion at December 31, 2006. This decrease of $700 million is due primarily to lower net losses in
  our U.S. plans due to a higher discount rate at December 31, 2007 and loss amortization in 2007. The net losses at December 31, 2007 principally result from the decline each year in the discount rate for
  the period 2002 through 2006 and from actual plan asset returns below expected rates of return during 2000 through 2002. Such net losses were recognized as of December 31, 2006 on our consolidated
  balance sheet and as a component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in accordance with SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
  Plans (SFAS No. 158) which is discussed in detail in Notes 1 and 22 to the financial statements. In the future we will continue to systematically recognize such net losses in net periodic pension expense in
  accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87,  Employers Accounting for Pensions  (SFAS No. 87). Under SFAS No. 87, we use the market-related value of plan assets reflecting
  changes in the fair value of plan assets over a three-year period. Further, net losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plans  projected benefit
  obligation (the corridor) are recognized over a six-year period.  
  Changes in net periodic pension expense may occur in the future due to changes in our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events. The following table  
  42  

highlights the sensitivity of our U.S. pension obligations and expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant:  

Change in Assumption    

Impact on Annual Pension Expense    

Impact on PBO    

0.25 percentage point decrease in discount rate   

Increase $50 million   

Increase $314 million   

0.25 percentage point increase in discount rate   

Decrease $50 million   

Decrease $309 million   

0.25 percentage point decrease in expected rate of return on assets   

Increase $30 million   

0.25 percentage point increase in expected rate of return on assets   

Decrease $30 million   

The sensitivities above regarding changes in the discount rate are applicable only when there are unrecognized losses outside of the corridor subject to amortization over a six-year period. At
  December 31, 2007, there were no losses outside of the corridor subject to amortization in our U.S. plans. In the future, if the discount rate were to increase from the current rate of 6.50 percent there
  would not be a significant change to annual pension expense. Only if the discount rate were to decrease to 6.25% would the sensitivities described in the table be applicable.  
  Net periodic pension expense for our pension plans is expected to be approximately $30 million in 2008, a $148 million decrease from 2007 due principally to a decrease in the amortization of net
  losses in our U.S. plans. The decline in the amortization of net losses results principally from an increase in the discount rate at December 31, 2007 and actual plan asset returns higher than the expected
  rate of return in 2004 and 2006.  
  In 2007, 2006 and 2005 we were not required to make a contribution to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements in our U.S. pension plans. We made voluntary contributions of $42 and $68
  million to our U.S. pension plans in 2007 and 2006, respectively, mainly for government contracting purposes. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates.
  Assuming that actual plan returns are consistent with our expected plan return of 9 percent in 2008 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, we would not be required to make any
  contributions to our U.S. pension plans to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we expect to make voluntary contributions of approximately $40 million in
  cash in 2008 to certain of our U.S. pension plans for government contracting purposes. We also expect to contribute approximately $125 million in cash in 2008 to our non-U.S. defined benefit pension
  plans to satisfy regulatory funding standards.  
    Long-Lived Assets (including Tangible and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets)   To conduct our global business operations and execute our business strategy, we acquire tangible and intangible
  assets, including property, plant and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets. At December 31, 2007, the net carrying amount of these long-lived assets totaled $6.4 billion. The determination of
  useful lives (for depreciation/amortization purposes) and whether or not these assets are impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our
  financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets
  whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be fully recoverable. The principal factors we consider in deciding when to perform an
  impairment review are as follows:  

significant under-performance (i.e., declines in sales, earnings or cash flows) of a business or product line in relation to expectations;   

annual operating plans or five-year strategic plans that indicate an unfavorable trend in operating performance of a business or product line;   

significant negative industry or economic trends; and   

significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.  

Once it is determined that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the estimated future undiscounted cash
  flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the
  carrying   
  43  

amount of the asset grouping and its fair value. We use the best information available to determine fair value, which are usually either market prices (if available) or an estimate of the future discounted
  cash flow. The key estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis include expected industry growth rates, our assumptions as to volume, selling prices and costs, and the discount rate selected. As
  described in more detail in the repositioning and other charges section of our MD A, we have recorded impairment charges related to long-lived assets of $9 and $12 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively,
  principally related to businesses in our Specialty Materials segment. These businesses were significantly under-performing or were in industries with negative economic trends and subsequently these
  businesses were significantly restructured, sold or are in the process of being sold.  
    Goodwill Impairment Testing   Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
  Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to impairment testing. Our Goodwill balance, $9.2 billion as of December 31, 2007, is subject to impairment testing annually as of March 31, or whenever events or
  changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable, using the guidance and criteria described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, (SFAS No.
  142)  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . This testing compares carrying values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value is reduced to fair value. The fair value of our reporting units is
  estimated utilizing a discounted cash flow approach incorporating historic and projected future operating performance. This impairment test involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions,
  changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We completed our annual impairment test as of
  March 31, 2007 and determined that there was no impairment as of that date.  
    Income Taxes   Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the
  year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic and international statutory income tax rates and tax planning opportunities in the jurisdictions in
  which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions as well as deferred tax asset and liability balances, including the estimation of valuation allowances and the
  evaluation of tax positions.  
  As of December 31, 2007, we recognized a net deferred tax asset of $1,611 million, less a valuation allowance of $490 million. Net deferred tax assets are primarily comprised of net deductible temporary
  differences, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. The determination of the amount of valuation allowance to be provided
  on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning
  strategies. A valuation allowance is required when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all
  available positive and negative evidence, including past operating results, projections of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. The projections of future taxable income
  include a number of estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs. Additionally, valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws.  
  Our net deferred tax asset of $1,611 million is comprised of $1,095 million related to U.S. operations and $516 million related to non-U.S. operations. The U.S. net deferred tax asset of $1,095 million is
  comprised of net deductible temporary differences, tax credit carryforwards and state tax net operating losses which we believe will more likely than not be realized through the generation of future taxable
  income in the U.S. and tax planning strategies. We maintain a valuation allowance of $63 million against such asset related to capital losses and state tax net operating losses. The non-U.S. net deferred tax
  asset of $516 million is comprised principally of net operating and capital loss carryforwards, mainly in Germany, France and the United Kingdom. We maintain a valuation allowance of $427 million against
  these deferred tax assets reflecting our historical experience and lower expectations of taxable income over the applicable carryforward periods. As more fully described in Note 6 to the financial statements,
  our valuation allowance decreased by $26 million in 2007 and increased by $39 and $139 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In the event we determine that we will not be able to realize our net deferred
  tax assets in the future, we will reduce such amounts through a charge to income in the period such  
  44  

determination is made. Conversely, if we determine that we will be able to realize net deferred tax assets in excess of the carrying amounts, we will decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a credit
  to income or a credit to goodwill in the period that such determination is made. If a valuation allowance is recognized for the net deferred tax asset for an acquired entity s deductible temporary differences,
  operating loss, capital loss, or tax credit carryforwards at the acquisition date, the tax benefits for those items recognized after the acquisition date shall be applied first to reduce to zero goodwill related to the
  acquisition, second to reduce to zero other non-current intangible assets related to the acquisition, and third to reduce income tax expense.  
  Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS No. 109) and in evaluating tax
  positions. We establish additional provisions for income taxes when, despite the belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain positions that do not meet the minimum probability
  threshold, as defined by FASB Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes An Interpretation of FASB Statement 109  ( FIN 48 ), which is a tax position that is more likely than
  not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are examined by various Federal, State and foreign tax
  authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We
  continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a
  revision become known.  
  As
    described in further detail in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements section
    in Note 1 to the financial statements, FIN 48 was effective beginning January
    1, 2007. FIN 48 establishes a single model to address accounting for uncertainty
    in tax positions. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing
    a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before
    being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance
    on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting
    in interim periods, disclosure and transition. Upon adoption as of January
    1, 2007, we reduced our existing reserves for uncertain tax positions by
    $33 million, largely related to a reduction in state income tax matters,
    partially offset by a net increase for federal and international tax reserves.
    This reduction was recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to shareholders  equity.
    Additionally, we decreased a deferred tax asset and its associated valuation
  allowance by $44 million and increased goodwill by $1 million.  
    Sales Recognition on Long-Term Contracts   In 2007, we recognized approximately 13 percent of our total net sales using the percentage-of-completion method for long-term contracts in our
  Automation and Control Solutions, Aerospace and Specialty Materials segments. These long-term contracts are measured on the cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts and the units-of-delivery
  basis for production-type contracts. Accounting for these contracts involves management judgment in estimating total contract revenue and cost. Contract revenues are largely determined by negotiated
  contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance and price adjustment clauses
  (such as inflation or index-based clauses). Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which can be several years, and the estimation of these costs requires management judgment. Cost estimates
  are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections. Significant factors that influence these estimates include inflationary
  trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are
  regularly monitored and revised based on changes in circumstances. Anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recognized when such losses become evident. We maintain financial controls over the
  customer qualification, contract pricing and estimation processes to reduce the risk of contract losses.  
  45  

OTHER MATTERS   
   Litigation   
  See Note 21 to the financial statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters.  
   Recent Accounting Pronouncements   
  See Note 1 to the financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.  
   Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
  Information relating to market risk is included in Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption  Financial Instruments .  
  46  

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
   HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS   

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.  
  47  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET   

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.  
  48  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.  
  49  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS  EQUITY   

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.  
  50  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   
    Accounting Principles   The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The following is a
  description of the significant accounting policies of Honeywell International Inc.  
    Principles of Consolidation   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Honeywell International Inc. and all of its subsidiaries and entities in which a controlling interest is
  maintained. Our consolidation policy requires the consolidation of entities where a controlling financial interest is obtained as well as consolidation of variable interest entities in which we bear a majority of
  the risk to the entities  potential losses or stand to gain from a majority of the entities  expected returns. All intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.  
    Cash and Cash Equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and on deposit and highly liquid, temporary cash investments with an original maturity of three months or less.  
    Inventories   Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out or the average cost method and the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for certain qualifying domestic
  inventories.  
    Investments   Investments in affiliates over which we have a significant influence, but not a controlling interest, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Other investments are carried
  at market value, if readily determinable, or at cost. All equity investments are periodically reviewed to determine if declines in fair value below cost basis are other-than-temporary. Significant and sustained
  decreases in quoted market prices or a series of historic and projected operating losses by investees are strong indicators of other-than-temporary declines. If the decline in fair value is determined to be
  other-than-temporary, an impairment loss is recorded and the investment is written down to a new carrying value.  
    Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including any asset retirement obligations, less accumulated depreciation. For financial reporting, the straight-line
  method of depreciation is used over the estimated useful lives of 10 to 50 years for buildings and improvements and 2 to 15 years for machinery and equipment. Statement of Financial Accounting
  Standards No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  (SFAS No. 143) and FASB Interpretation No. 47 ( FIN 47 ) require recognition of the fair value of obligations associated with the
  retirement of tangible long-lived assets when there is a legal obligation to incur such costs. Upon adoption of FIN 47 on December 31, 2005, we recorded an increase of $14 million to property, plant and
  equipment and recognized an asset retirement obligation liability of $46 million. This resulted in the recognition of a non-cash charge of $32 million ($21 million after tax) that was reported as a cumulative
  effect of an accounting change. Upon initial recognition of a liability the cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the corresponding asset s useful life. See Note 11 and
  Note 17 for additional details.  
    Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets   Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets and identifiable intangible assets of businesses
  acquired. Goodwill and certain other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized. Intangible assets determined to have definite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Goodwill
  and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to impairment testing annually as of March 31, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully
  recoverable, using the guidance and criteria described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . This testing compares carrying values to fair values
  and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2007 and determined that there was no impairment as
  of that date. See Note 12 for additional details on goodwill balances.  
  51  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
    Other Intangible Assets with Determinable Lives   Other intangible assets with determinable lives consist of customer lists, technology, patents and trademarks and other intangibles and are
  amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 2 to 24 years.  
    Long-Lived Assets   We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of long-lived assets (including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with determinable lives)
  whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. We evaluate events or changes in circumstances based on a number of factors
  including operating results, business plans and forecasts, general and industry trends and, economic projections and anticipated cash flows. An impairment is assessed when the undiscounted expected
  future cash flows derived from an asset are less than its carrying amount. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the carrying value of an asset exceeds its fair value and are recognized
  in earnings. We also continually evaluate the estimated useful lives of all long-lived assets and periodically revise such estimates based on current events.  
    Sales Recognition   Product and service sales are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, product delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, pricing is fixed or
  determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Service sales, principally representing repair, maintenance and engineering activities in our Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions
  segments, are recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered. Sales under long-term contracts in the Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions segments are recorded on a
  percentage-of-completion method measured on the cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts and the units-of-delivery basis for production-type contracts. Provisions for anticipated losses on long-
  term contracts are recorded in full when such losses become evident. Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements are recognized as each element is earned based on the relative fair
  value of each element provided the delivered elements have value to customers on a standalone basis. Amounts allocated to each element are based on its objectively determined fair value, such as the
  sales price for the product or service when it is sold separately or competitor prices for similar products or services.  
    Environmental Expenditures   Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past
  operations, and that do not provide future benefits, are expensed as incurred. Liabilities are recorded when environmental remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the costs can be
  reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of the undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as
  remediation efforts progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal information becomes available. Given the uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement policies, the impact
  of other potentially responsible parties, technology and information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental loss
  in excess of our recorded liabilities.  
    Asbestos Related Contingencies and Insurance Recoveries   Honeywell is a defendant in personal injury actions related to products containing asbestos (refractory and friction products). We
  recognize a liability for any asbestos related contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. Regarding North American Refractories Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we
  accrue for pending claims based on terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, in definitive agreements or agreements in principle with current claimants. We also accrued for the probable
  value of future NARCO asbestos related claims through 2018 based on the disease criteria and payment values contained in the NARCO trust as described in Note 21. In light of the inherent uncertainties
  in making long term projections regarding claims filing rates and disease manifestation, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating NARCO asbestos claims beyond 2018 under
  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  (SFAS  
  52  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  No. 5). Regarding Bendix asbestos related claims, we accrue for the estimated value of pending claims based on expected claim resolution values and historic dismissal rates. Since the fourth quarter of
  2006, we also accrue for the estimated cost of future anticipated claims related to Bendix for the next five years based on our assessment of additional claims that may be brought against us and
  anticipated resolution values in the tort system. In December 2006, we also changed our methodology for valuing Bendix pending and future claims from using average resolution values for the previous
  five years to using average resolution values for the previous two years. The claims filing experience and resolution data for Bendix related claims has become more reliable over the past several years.
  Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we updated our methodology for valuing Bendix pending and future claims using the average resolution values for the past three years. We will continue to
  update the expected resolution values used to estimate the cost of pending and future Bendix claims during the fourth quarter each year. For additional information see Note 21. We continually assess the
  likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential ranges of probable losses and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on an analysis of each
  individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts.  
  In connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In assessing the probability of insurance
  recovery, we make judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our historical experience with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent solvency
  issues surrounding insurers, various judicial determinations relevant to our insurance programs and our consideration of the impacts of any settlements with our insurers.  
    Aerospace Sales Incentives   We provide sales incentives to commercial aircraft manufacturers and airlines in connection with their selection of our aircraft equipment, predominately wheel and
  braking system hardware and auxiliary power units, for installation on commercial aircraft. These incentives principally consist of free or deeply discounted products, but also include credits for future
  purchases of product and upfront cash payments. These costs are expensed as provided. For aircraft manufacturers, incentives are recorded when the products are delivered; for airlines, incentives are
  recorded when the associated aircraft are delivered by the aircraft manufacturer to the airline.  
    Research and Development   Research and development costs for company-sponsored research and development projects are expensed as incurred. Such costs are principally included in Cost of
  Products Sold and were $1,459, $1,411 and $1,072 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
    Stock-Based Compensation Plans   Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R) requiring that compensation cost relating to
  share-based payment awards made to employees and directors be recognized in the financial statements. The principal awards issued under our stock-based compensation plans, which are described in
  Note 20 include non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs). The cost for such awards is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award. The value of the portion of the
  award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods (generally the vesting period of the equity award) in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  
  Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation cost using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
  Employees  (APB No. 25), and related interpretations. We also followed disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , as amended by SFAS No. 148,
   Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure . Under APB No. 25 there was no compensation cost recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for our stock option
  awards. Compensation cost for RSUs is recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and  
  53  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  is included in selling, general and administrative expenses, and was not affected by our adoption of FAS No. 123R.  
  We adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method and, accordingly, the 2005 Consolidated Statement of Operations has not been restated to reflect the fair value method of
  recognizing compensation cost relating to stock options. Share-based compensation cost relating to stock options recognized in 2007 and 2006 is based on the value of the portion of the award that is
  ultimately expected to vest. SFAS No. 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant in order to estimate the portion of the award that will ultimately vest. The estimate is based on our
  historical rates of forfeiture. In our pro forma information required under SFAS No. 123 for 2005, we accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.  
    Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits   We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of our employees and retirees. We also
  sponsor postretirement benefit plans that provide health care benefits and life insurance coverage to eligible retirees. For our U.S. defined benefit pension plans we use the market-related value of plan
  assets reflecting changes in the fair value of plan assets over a three-year period. Further, net actuarial (gains) or losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or
  the plans  projected benefit obligation (the corridor) are recognized over a six year period. We adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans 
  (SFAS No. 158) as of December 31, 2006. See Note 22 for additional disclosures.  
    Foreign Currency Translation   Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating outside the United States with a functional currency other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end
  exchange rates. Sales, costs and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component of
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories and property, plant and equipment, including related expenses, are
  remeasured at the exchange rate in effect on the date the assets were acquired, while monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement adjustments for these
  subsidiaries are included in earnings.  
    Derivative Financial Instruments   As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates and
  commodity prices, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations through
  our normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate through the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments are used to manage risk and are not used
  for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use leveraged derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes must be designated and effective as a
  hedge of the identified risk exposure at the inception of the contract. Accordingly, changes in fair value of the derivative contract must be highly correlated with changes in fair value of the underlying
  hedged item at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.  
  All derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. For derivatives designated as hedges of the fair value of assets or liabilities, the changes in fair
  values of both the derivatives and the hedged items are recorded in current earnings. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the derivatives are
  recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged items impact earnings. Cash flows of such derivative financial instruments are
  classified consistent with the underlying hedged item.  
    Transfers of Financial Instruments   Sales, transfers and securitization of financial instruments are accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140,  Accounting for
  Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities . We sell interests in  
  54  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties. The receivables are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the time they are sold. The value assigned to our subordinated
  interests and undivided interests retained in trade receivables sold is based on the relative fair values of the interests retained and sold. The carrying value of the retained interests approximates fair value
  due to the short-term nature of the collection period for the receivables.  
    Income Taxes   Deferred tax liabilities or assets reflect temporary differences between amounts of assets and liabilities for financial and tax reporting. Such amounts are adjusted, as appropriate, to
  reflect changes in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance is established to offset any deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it
  is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The determination of the amount of a valuation allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves
  estimates regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies. In assessing the need for
  a valuation allowance, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including past operating results, projections of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies.
  The projections of future taxable income include a number of estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs. Additionally, valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be
  impacted by changes to tax laws.  
  Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS No. 109) and in evaluating tax
  positions. We establish additional provisions for income taxes when, despite the belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain positions that do not meet the minimum probability
  threshold, as defined by FASB Interpretation ( FIN ) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which is a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by
  the applicable taxing authority. In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are examined by various Federal, State and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential
  outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount
  of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known.  
    Earnings Per Share   Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of
  common shares outstanding and all dilutive potential common shares outstanding.  
    Use of Estimates   The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
  affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and related disclosures in the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates and assumptions are periodically
  reviewed and the effects of revisions are reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the period they are determined to be necessary.  
    Reclassifications   Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements   In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FIN 48, which establishes a single model to address accounting for uncertain tax
  positions. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also
  provides guidance on derecognition, measurement classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. Upon adoption as of January 1, 2007, we reduced our
  existing reserves for uncertain tax positions by $33 million, largely related to a reduction in state income tax matters, partially offset by a net increase for federal and international tax reserves.  
  55  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  This reduction was recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to shareowners  equity. Additionally, we decreased a deferred tax asset and its associated valuation allowance by $44 million and increased
  goodwill by $1 million. See Note 6 for additional FIN 48 information and disclosure.  
  In May 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FIN 48-1  Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48  (FSP FIN 48-1). FSP FIN 48-1 provides guidance on how to determine
  whether a tax position is effectively settled for the purpose of recognizing previously unrecognized tax benefits. FSP FIN 48-1 is effective retroactively to January 1, 2007. The implementation of this
  standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  
  In September 2006, the FASB issued FSP AUG AIR-1  Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities  (FSP AUG AIR-1). FSP AUG AIR-1 amends the guidance on the accounting for planned
  major maintenance activities; specifically it precludes the use of the previously acceptable  accrue in advance  method. FSP AUG AIR-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The
  implementation of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  
  In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 establishes a common definition for
  fair value to be applied to US GAAP requiring use of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure about such fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective
  for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007.  
  In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-2  Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement 157  (FSP 157-2). FSP 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157, for all nonfinancial assets
  and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually) to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008.
  The Company is currently assessing the impact of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. The implementation of
  this standard, for financial assets and financial liabilities, will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  
  In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many
  financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years
  beginning after November 15, 2007. The implementation of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  
  In March 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 06-10  Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Agreements  (EITF 06-10). EITF 06-10
  provides guidance for determining a liability for postretirement benefit obligations as well as recognition and measurement of the associated asset on the basis of the terms of the collateral assignment
  agreement. EITF 06-10 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. The implementation of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results
  of operations.  
  In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-11  Accounting for the Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards  (EITF 06-11). EITF 06-11 provides that tax benefits associated
  with dividends on share-based payment awards be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital. EITF 06-11 is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
  2007. The implementation of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  
  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R provides revised guidance on how acquirers recognize and  
  56  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  measure the consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill acquired in a business combination. SFAS No. 141R also expands required
  disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company is
  currently assessing the impact of SFAS No. 141R on its consolidated financial position and results of operations.  
  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 establishes requirements for ownership interests
  in subsidiaries held by parties other than the Company (sometimes called  minority interests ) be clearly identified, presented, and disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity,
  but separate from the parent s equity. All changes in the parent s ownership interests are required to be accounted for consistently as equity transactions and any noncontrolling equity investments in
  deconsolidated subsidiaries must be measured initially at fair value. SFAS No. 160 is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. However, presentation and
  disclosure requirements must be retrospectively applied to comparative financial statements. The Company is currently assessing the impact of SFAS No. 160 on its consolidated financial position and
  results of operations.  
   Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures   
  We acquired businesses for an aggregate cost of $1,190, $979 and $3,500 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. All of our acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of
  accounting, and accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses were recorded at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. Significant acquisitions made in these years are
  discussed below.  
  In July 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of Dimensions International, a defense logistics business, for a purchase price of approximately $230 million. The purchase price for the
  acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The Company has assigned $21
  million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly contractual relationships. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated life of 5 years using straight-line and accelerated
  amortization methods. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired approximating $180 million, was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax
  purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The results
  from the acquisition date through December 31, 2007 are included in the Aerospace segment and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.  
  In July 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of Enraf Holding B.V., a provider of comprehensive solutions for the control and management of transportation, storage and blending operations
  in the oil and gas industry, for a purchase price of approximately $264 million, including the assumption of approximately $40 million of debt. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the
  tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The Company has assigned $90 million to identifiable intangible
  assets, predominantly customer relationships, existing technology and trademarks. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated life of 8-15 years using straight-line and accelerated
  amortization methods. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired approximating $167 million, was recorded as goodwill. Goodwill will be deducted over a 15
  year period for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of
  acquisition. The results from the acquisition date through December 31, 2007 are included in  
  57  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  the Automation and Control Solutions segment and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.  
  In December 2007, the Company, specifically the Automation and Control Solutions segment, completed the acquisition of Maxon Corporation, a leading industrial combustion business, for a
  purchase price of approximately $185 million. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their
  estimated fair values at acquisition date. The Company has assigned $88 million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly customer relationships and trademarks. These intangible assets are being
  amortized over their estimated lives which range from 6-10 years using straight line and accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets
  acquired approximating $92 million, was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method, and, accordingly, results of
  operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The results from the acquisition date through December 31, 2007 were not material to the consolidated
  financial statements.  
  In December 2007, the Company, specifically the Automation and Control Solutions segment, completed the acquisition of Hand Held Products, Inc. a privately held automatic identification and data
  collection company, for a purchase price of approximately $390 million. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities
  assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The Company has assigned $114 million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly customer relationships and existing
  technology. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated lives which range from 6 to 10 years using straight-line and accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the purchase
  price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired approximating $259 million, was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the
  purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The results from the acquisition date through December 31,
  2007 were not material to the consolidated financial statements.  
  In May 2006, the Company purchased Gardiner Groupe, a privately held company. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
  liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values and lives at the acquisition date. The Company has assigned $47 million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly customer relationships and
  trademarks. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated lives which range from 3 to 15 years using straight-line and accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the purchase
  price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired approximating $130 million, was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the
  purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The results from the acquisition date through December 31,
  2006 are included in the Automation and Control Solutions segment and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.  
  In March 2006, the Company purchased First Technology plc, a U.K. publicly listed company. The aggregate value of the purchase price was $723 million, including the assumption of approximately
  $217 million of outstanding debt and $23 million of transaction costs. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
  based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The Company has assigned $155 million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly customer relationships, existing technology and
  trademarks. These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated lives which range from 2 to 15 years using straight-line and accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the purchase
  price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired approximating $432 million, was  
  58  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included in the consolidated
  financial statements from the date of acquisition. The results from the acquisition date through December 31, 2006 are included in the Automation and Control Solutions segment and were not material to
  the consolidated financial statements. During the year, the Company completed the sales of the First Technology Safety   Analysis business for $93 million and First Technology Automotive for $90 million
  which were accounted for as part of the purchase price allocation.  
  In November 2005, the Company acquired the remaining 50 percent of UOP LLC giving Honeywell full ownership of the entity. The aggregate value of the purchase price was approximately $825
  million, including the assumption of approximately $115 million of outstanding debt. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
  liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The Company has assigned $339 million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly existing technology, which is being
  amortized over 15 years on a straight-line basis and trade names, which are not amortized. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired approximating $336
  million, was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. Following this acquisition, which is being accounted for by the purchase method, results of operations have been
  included into the Specialty Materials segment. Prior to that date, UOP results for the 50 percent share that the Company owned was included in equity income of affiliated companies.  
  On March 31, 2005, the Company purchased 100% of the issued and ordinary preference share capital of NOVAR plc (NOVAR) for $1.7 billion, net of cash acquired, which represented $2.4 billion for
  consideration of all outstanding shares and outstanding options to be exercised, net of the assumption of debt of $0.7 billion. Transaction costs related to this acquisition were $49 million. In December
  2005, we completed the sale of the Security Printing business to M F Worldwide Corp. for $800 million in cash. In February 2006, we completed the sale of Indalex to an affiliate of private investment firm
  Sun Capital Partners, Inc. for approximately $425 million in cash. The Indalex business was classified as held for sale in our December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet and both the Indalex and
  Security Printing businesses have been presented as discontinued operations in our Statement of Operations for periods prior to the sale. Goodwill of approximately $1.3 billion was recognized and we
  allocated $261 million to other intangible assets (contractual customer relationships, existing technology and trademarks). These intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives
  which range from 5 to 15 years using straight-line and accelerated amortization methods. In addition, accrued liabilities included $76 million of restructuring costs related to the integration of the NOVAR
  operations.  
  As of December 31, 2007, the purchase accounting for Dimensions International, Enraf Holding B.V., Hand Held Products, Inc. and Maxon Corporation are still subject to final adjustment primarily for
  useful lives, amounts allocated to intangible assets and goodwill, for certain pre-acquisition contingencies, and for settlement of post closing purchase price adjustments.  
  In connection with all acquisitions in 2007, 2006 and 2005, the amounts recorded for transaction costs and the costs of integrating the acquired businesses into Honeywell were not material.  
  The pro forma results for 2007, 2006 and 2005, assuming these acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, would not be materially different from consolidated reported results.  
  59  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 3 Repositioning and Other Charges   
  A summary of repositioning and other charges follows:  

The following table summarizes the pretax distribution of total net repositioning and other charges by income statement classification.  

The following table summarizes the pretax impact of total net repositioning and other charges by segment.  

In 2007, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $209 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 3,408 manufacturing and administrative positions mainly in our
  Automation and Control Solutions and Aerospace segments. Also, $18 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Transportation Systems and Aerospace segments, were
  returned to income in 2007 due mainly to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs and due to fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with prior
  severance programs.  
  In 2006, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $124 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 2,253 manufacturing and administrative positions across all of our
  segments. Also, $22 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Aerospace, Transportation Systems and Specialty Materials segments were returned to income in 2006 due
  mainly to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs and due to  
  60  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with prior Aerospace severance programs.  
  In 2005, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $267 million primarily for severance costs related to workforce reductions of 5,269 manufacturing and administrative positions across all of our
  segments including the implementation of a new organizational structure in our Aerospace segment (substantially implemented in the third quarter of 2005) which reorganized our Aerospace businesses to
  better align with customer segments. Also, $25 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Corporate, Specialty Materials and Automation and Control Solutions segments
  were returned to income in 2005. The reversal of severance liabilities related to changes in the scope of previously announced severance programs, excise taxes related to an executive severance amount
  previously paid which were determined to no longer be payable, and severance amounts previously paid to an outside service provider as part of an outsourcing arrangement which were refunded to
  Honeywell.  
  The following table summarizes the status of our total repositioning reserves.  

In 2007, we recognized a charge of $225 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
  insurance, of $100 million which are discussed in Note 21. We recognized other charges of $18 million for a business sales tax related to a prior divestiture ($8 million) and for contemplated settlements of
  certain legal matters ($10 million). We also recognized impairment charges of $9 million related to the write-down of property, plant and equipment held for sale in our Specialty Materials segment.  
  In 2006, we recognized a charge of $210 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
  insurance, of $126 million which are discussed in Note 21. We recognized other charges of $51 million related to our Corporate segment primarily for the settlement of a property damage claim litigation
  matter in Brunswick, GA and our entrance into a plea agreement related to an environmental matter at our Baton Rouge, LA facility. We recognized impairment charges of $12 million related to the write-
  down of property, plant and equipment held for sale in our Specialty Materials segment. We also recognized a credit of $18 million in connection with an arbitration award for overcharges by a supplier of
  phenol to our Specialty Materials business for 2005 transactions.  
  In 2005, we recognized a charge of $186 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
  insurance, of $10 million which are discussed in Note 21. We recognized a credit of $67 million in  
  61  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  connection with an arbitration award for overcharges by a supplier of phenol to our Specialty Materials business from June 2003 through the end of 2004. We recognized impairment charges of $23 million
  related to the write-down of property, plant and equipment held and used in our Specialty Materials segment. We also recognized other charges of $18 million principally related to the modification of a
  lease agreement for the Corporate headquarters facility ($10 million) and for various legal settlements ($7 million).  
   Note 4 Other (Income)/Expense   

Note 5 Interest and Other Financial Charges   

The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was 4.65 percent and 5.67 percent, respectively.  
   Note 6 Income Taxes   
   Income from continuing operations before taxes   

62  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Tax expense   

(1)   

Net of changes in valuation allowance. 

The Company s effective tax rate increased by 0.7 of a percentage point in 2007 compared with 2006 due principally to the expiration of the tax benefit on export sales, partially offset by a decrease in
  the overall state and foreign effective tax rate and an increase in the tax benefit for the domestic manufacturing deduction and the favorable resolution of certain tax audits.  
  63  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Deferred tax assets (liabilities)   
  Deferred income taxes represent the future tax effects of transactions which are reported in different periods for tax and financial reporting purposes. The tax effects of temporary differences and tax
  carryforwards which give rise to future income tax benefits and payables are as follows:  

There were $32 million of U.S. federal tax net operating losses available for carryforward at December 31, 2007 which were generated by certain subsidiaries prior to their acquisition and have
  expiration dates through 2024. The use of pre-acquisition operating losses is subject to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. We do not anticipate that these limitations will affect utilization of
  the carryforwards prior to their expiration. Various subsidiaries have state tax net operating loss carryforwards of $3.3 billion at December 31, 2007 with varying expiration dates through 2026. We have
  U.S. federal capital losses available for carryforward of $112 million which expire in 2011 and state capital losses available for carryforward of $286 million with varying expiration dates. We do not
  anticipate using these capital losses before expiration. We also have foreign net operating and capital losses of $2.6 billion which are available to reduce future income tax payments in several countries,
  subject to varying expiration rules.  
  We have state tax credit carryforwards of $42 million at December 31, 2007, including carryforwards of $29 million with various expiration dates through 2027 and tax credits of $13 million which are
  not subject to expiration. In addition, we have $5 million of foreign tax credits available for carryback or carryforward on the U.S. federal tax return at December 31, 2007 with varying expiration dates
  through 2013.  
  The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets was decreased by $26 million in 2007 and increased by $39 and $139 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 decrease in the valuation
  allowance was primarily due to a decrease in valuation allowances related to state and foreign net operating losses partially offset by a valuation allowance against U.S. capital losses. The 2006 increase
  in the valuation allowance was primarily due to an increase in foreign net operating losses attributable to acquired businesses not expected to be realized and a partial valuation allowance against a
  deferred tax asset established in connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 158 partially offset by a decrease in state tax net operating loss carryforwards (net of federal impact).  
  Federal income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of the majority of our international subsidiaries as it is our intention to reinvest these earnings into the respective businesses.
  At December 31, 2007 Honeywell has not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $4.1 billion of such earnings of our non-U.S. operations. It is not practicable to
  estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if some or all of such earnings were to be remitted, and foreign tax credits would be available to reduce or eliminate the resulting U.S. income tax liability.  
  64  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  As of January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48 as described in Note 1. As of that date, we had $744 million of unrecognized tax benefits. If recognized, approximately $575 million would
  be recorded as a component of income tax expense. For year ended December 31, 2007, the Company decreased its unrecognized tax benefits by $78 million due to the tax benefit from the favorable
  resolution of tax audits, partially offset by foreign currency translation and additional reserves for various international and U.S. tax audit matters. The net decrease was recorded as a benefit to income tax
  expense. As of December 31, 2007 we had $666 million of unrecognized tax benefits. If recognized, approximately $547 million would be recorded as a component of income tax expense.  
  The following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits:  

Total    

Balance at January 1, 2007   

$   

744   

Gross increases related to current period tax positions   

68   

Gross increases related to prior periods tax positions   

100   

Gross decreases related to prior periods tax positions   

(167   
       
       )   

Decrease related to settlements with Tax Authorities   

(101   
       
       )   

Expiration of the statute of limitations for the assessment of taxes   

Foreign Currency Translation   

22   

Balance at December 31, 2007   

$   

666   

In many cases our uncertain tax positions are related to tax years that remain subject to examination by the relevant tax authorities. The following table summarizes these open tax years by major
  jurisdiction as of December 31, 2007:  

(1)   

includes federal as well as state, provincial or similar local jurisdictions, as applicable 

Based on the outcome of these examinations, or as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related unrecognized tax benefits for tax
  positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns will materially change from those recorded as liabilities for uncertain tax positions in our financial statements. In addition, the outcome of these
  examinations may impact the valuation of certain deferred tax assets (such as net operating losses) in future periods. Based on the number of tax years currently under audit by the relevant U.S federal,
  state and foreign tax authorities, the Company anticipates that several of these audits may be finalized in the foreseeable future. However, based on the status of these examinations, and the protocol of
  finalizing audits by the relevant tax authorities, which could include formal legal proceedings, at this time it is not possible to estimate the impact of any amount of such changes, if any, to previously
  recorded uncertain tax positions.  
  65  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Unrecognized tax benefits for the above listed examinations in progress were $502 million and $373 million as of January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, respectively. This decrease is primarily due
  to the settlement of tax examinations during the year.  
  Estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes are classified as a component of Tax Expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and totaled $20 million for
  the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. Accrued interest and penalties were $98 million and $118 million as of January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, respectively.  
   Note 7 Earnings (Loss) Per Share   
  The following table sets forth the computations of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share:  

In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the effect of stock options when the options  exercise prices exceed the average market price of the common shares
  during the period. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the number of stock options not included in the computation were 8,599,620, 22,749,056 and 17,793,385, respectively. These stock options were outstanding at
  the end of each of the respective years.  
   Note 8 Accounts, Notes and Other Receivables   

66  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Trade Accounts Receivable includes $946 and $808 million of unbilled balances under long-term contracts as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts are billed in accordance
  with the terms of the customer contracts to which they relate.  
  We sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties. The sold receivables are over-collateralized by $101 million at December 31, 2007 and we retain a subordinated
  interest in the pool of receivables representing that over-collateralization as well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. New receivables are sold under the agreement as
  previously sold receivables are collected. Losses are recognized when our interest in the receivables are sold. The retained interests in the receivables are shown at the amounts expected to be collected
  by us, and such carrying value approximates the fair value of our retained interests. We are compensated for our services in the collection and administration of the receivables.  

Losses on sales of receivables were $29, $27 and $18 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No credit losses were incurred during those years.  
   Note 9 Inventories   

Inventories valued at LIFO amounted to $247 and $205 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Had such LIFO inventories been valued at current costs, their carrying values would
  have been approximately $199 and $170 million higher at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  
   Note 10 Investments and Long-Term Receivables   

Long-Term Trade and Other Receivables includes $63 and $68 million of unbilled balances under long-term contracts as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts are billed in
  accordance with the terms of the customer contracts to which they relate.  
  67  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 11 Property, Plant and Equipment   

Depreciation expense was $675, $650 and $578 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
   Note 12 Goodwill and Other Intangibles Net   
  The change in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 by segment are as follows:  

Intangible assets are comprised of:  

68  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Intangible assets amortization expense was $162, $144 and $75 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Estimated intangible assets amortization expense for each of the next five years
  approximates $190 million in 2008, $190 million in 2009, $180 million in 2010, $160 million in 2011 and $140 million in 2012.  
   Note 13 Accrued Liabilities   

69  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 14 Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements   

The schedule of principal payments on long-term debt is as follows:  

We maintain a $2.8 billion five year revolving credit facility with a group of banks, arranged by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P.Morgan Securities Inc. This credit facility contains a $700 million
  sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The $2.8 billion credit facility is maintained for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance of commercial paper. We had no borrowings
  outstanding or letters of credit issued under the credit facility at December 31, 2007.  
  The credit agreement does not restrict our ability to pay dividends and contains no financial covenants. The failure to comply with customary conditions or the occurrence of customary events of
  default contained in the credit agreement would prevent any further borrowings and would generally require the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement. Such events of  
  70  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  default include: (a) non-payment of credit agreement debt, interest or fees; (b) non-compliance with the terms of the credit agreement covenants; (c) cross-default to other debt in certain circumstances; (d)
  bankruptcy; and (e) defaults upon obligations under Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Additionally, each of the banks has the right to terminate its commitment to lend additional funds or issue
  letters of credit under the agreement if any person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 30 percent or more of our voting stock, or, during any 12-month period, individuals who were directors of
  Honeywell at the beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors (the Board).  
  Loans under the $2.8 billion credit facility are required to be repaid no later than May 14, 2012. We have agreed to pay a facility fee of 0.05 percent per annum on the aggregate commitment.  
  Interest on borrowings under the $2.8 billion credit facility would be determined, at Honeywell s option, by (a) an auction bidding procedure; (b) the highest of the floating base rate publicly announced
  by Citibank, N.A., 0.5 percent above the average CD rate, or 0.5 percent above the Federal funds rate; or (c) the Eurocurrency rate plus 0.15 percent (applicable margin).  
  The facility fee, the applicable margin over the Eurocurrency rate and the letter of credit issuance fee, are subject to change, based upon a grid determined by our long term debt ratings. The credit
  agreement is not subject to termination based upon a decrease in our debt ratings or a material adverse change.  
  In March 2007, the Company issued $400 million of 5.30% Senior Notes due 2017 and $600 million 5.70% Senior Notes due 2037 (collectively, the  Notes ). The Notes are senior unsecured and
  unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior unsecured debt and senior to all Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering resulted in gross
  proceeds of $1 billion, offset by $12 million in discount and issuance costs.  
  In July 2007, the Company issued $500 million Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009 and $400 million 5.625% Senior Notes due 2012 (collectively, the  Senior Notes ). The Senior Notes are senior
  unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior unsecured debt and senior to all Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering
  resulted in gross proceeds of $900 million, offset by $3 million in discount and issuance costs.  
  In
    the first quarter of 2007, the Company repaid $350 million of its 7.0% Notes,
    primarily through issuance of the Notes. The proceeds from the Senior Notes
  were used to repay commercial paper.  
   Note 15 Lease Commitments   
  Future minimum lease payments under operating leases having initial or remaining noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:  

We have entered into agreements to lease land, equipment and buildings. Principally all our operating leases have initial terms of up to 25 years, and some contain renewal options subject to
  customary conditions. At any time during the terms of some of our leases, we may at our option  
  71  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  purchase the leased assets for amounts that approximate fair value. We do not expect that any of our commitments under the lease agreements will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
  results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  
  Rent expense was $365, $341 and $326 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
   Note 16 Financial Instruments   
    Credit and Market Risk   Financial instruments, including derivatives, expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest or currency exchange
  rates. We manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our
  counterparties in derivative transactions are substantial investment and commercial banks with significant experience using such derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair
  value and cash flows of our derivative and other financial instruments considering reasonably possible changes in interest and currency exchange rates and restrict the use of derivative financial
  instruments to hedging activities.  
  We continually monitor the creditworthiness of our customers to which we grant credit terms in the normal course of business. While concentrations of credit risk associated with our trade accounts
  and notes receivable are considered minimal due to our diverse customer base, a significant portion of our customers are in the commercial air transport industry (aircraft manufacturers and airlines)
  accounting for approximately 21 percent of our consolidated sales in 2007. The terms and conditions of our credit sales are designed to mitigate or eliminate concentrations of credit risk with any single
  customer. Our sales are not materially dependent on a single customer or a small group of customers.  
    Foreign Currency Risk Management   We conduct our business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign currencies. Our exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange
  rates arises from international financing activities between subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and anticipated transactions arising from international trade. Our
  objective is to preserve the economic value of non-functional currency denominated cash flows. We attempt to hedge transaction exposures with natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once
  these opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign currency forward and option agreements with third parties. Our principal currency exposures relate to the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound,
  Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Mexican peso, Swiss franc, Czech koruna, Chinese renminbi and Japanese yen.  
  We hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. Prior to conversion into U.S dollars, these assets and liabilities are remeasured at spot exchange rates in effect on
  the balance sheet date. The effects of changes in spot rates are recognized in earnings and included in Other/(Income) Expense. We hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates principally
  with forward contracts. Forward contracts are marked-to-market with the resulting gains and losses similarly recognized in earnings offsetting the gains and losses on the non-functional currency
  denominated monetary assets and liabilities being hedged.  
  We partially hedge forecasted 2008 sales and purchases denominated in non-functional currencies with currency forward contracts. When a functional currency strengthens against nonfunctional
  currencies, the decline in value of forecasted non-functional currency cash inflows (sales) or outflows (purchases) is partially offset by the recognition of gains (sales) and losses (purchases), respectively,
  in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. Conversely, when a functional currency weakens against non-functional currencies, the increase in value of forecasted nonfunctional currency
  cash inflows (sales) or outflows (purchases) is partially offset by the recognition of losses (sales) and gains (purchases), respectively, in the value of the forward contracts  
  72  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  designated as hedges. Market value gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction is recognized. All open forward contracts mature by December 31, 2008.  
  At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had contracts with notional amounts of $3,295
    and $2,572 million, respectively, to exchange foreign currencies, principally
    the US dollar, Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Mexican
    peso, Swiss franc, Czech koruna, Chinese renminbi, and Japanese yen.  
    Commodity Price Risk Management   Our exposure to market risk for commodity prices can result in changes in our cost of production. We primarily mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk
  through the use of long-term, fixed-price contracts with our suppliers and formula price agreements with suppliers and customers. We also enter into forward commodity purchase agreements with third
  parties designated as hedges of anticipated purchases of several commodities. Forward commodity purchase agreements are marked-to-market, with the resulting gains and losses recognized in earnings
  when the hedged transaction is recognized.  
    Interest Rate Risk Management   We use a combination of financial instruments, including long-term, medium-term and short-term financing, variable-rate commercial paper, and interest rate swaps to
  manage the interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively
  changed $300 and $700 million, respectively, of fixed rate debt at an average rate of 6.01 and 6.38 percent, respectively, to LIBOR based floating rate debt. Our interest rate swaps mature through 2037.  
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts and notes receivables, payables, commercial paper and short-term borrowings contained in the
  Consolidated Balance Sheet approximates fair value. Summarized below are the carrying values and fair values of our other financial instruments at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The fair values are
  based on the quoted market prices for the issues (if traded), current rates offered to us for debt of the same remaining maturity and characteristics, or other valuation techniques, as appropriate.  

73  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 17 Other Liabilities   
  Other liabilities consist of the following:  

(1)   

Asset retirement obligations primarily relate to costs associated with the future retirement of nuclear fuel conversion facilities in our Specialty Materials segment and the future retirement of facilities in
      our Automation and Control Solutions segment. 

A reconciliation of our liability for asset retirement obligations for the year ended December 31, 2007, is as follows:  

Note 18 Capital Stock   
  We are authorized to issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, with a par value of one dollar. Common shareowners are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by the Board,
  are entitled to one vote per share, and are entitled, in the event of liquidation, to share ratably in all the assets of Honeywell which are available for distribution to the common shareowners. Common
  shareowners do not have preemptive or conversion rights. Shares of common stock issued and outstanding or held in the treasury are not liable to further calls or assessments. There are no restrictions
  on us relative to dividends or the repurchase or redemption of common stock.  
  Under the Company s previously reported $3.0 billion share repurchase program, $2.7 billion remained available as of December 31, 2007 for additional share repurchases. The amount and timing of
  repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and the level of other investing activities.  
  We are authorized to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value, and can determine the number of shares of each series, and the rights, preferences and limitations of each
  series. At December 31, 2007, there was no preferred stock outstanding.  
  74  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 19 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   
  Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is included in the Consolidated Statement of Shareowners  Equity. The changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) are as
  follows:  

The components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) are as follows:  

75  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 20 Stock-Based Compensation Plans   
  We have stock-based compensation plans available to grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted units and restricted stock to key employees. Under
  the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (the Plan), which was approved by the shareowners at the Annual Meeting of Shareowners and became effective on April 24,
  2006, a maximum of 43 million shares of Honeywell common stock may be awarded. We expect that common stock awarded on an annual basis will be between 1.0 and 1.5 percent of total common stock
  outstanding. Following approval of the Plan on April 24, 2006, we will not grant any new awards under any previously existing stock-based compensation plans. Additionally, under the 2006 Stock Plan for
  Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. (the Directors Plan), which was approved by the shareowners at the Annual Meeting of Shareowners and became effective on April 24, 2006,
  500,000 shares of Honeywell common stock may be awarded. The Directors Plan replaced the 1994 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc.  
    Stock Options   The exercise price, term and other conditions applicable to each option granted under our stock plans are generally determined by the Management Development and Compensation
  Committee of the Board. The exercise price of stock options is set on the grant date and may not be less than the fair market value per share of our stock on that date. The fair value is recognized as an
  expense over the employee s requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the award). Options have generally vested over a three-year period and expire after ten years. Starting with 2007
  option grants the vesting period was extended to four years.  
  The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Honeywell
  common stock. We used a Monte Carlo simulation model to derive an expected term. Such model uses historical data to estimate option exercise activity and post-vest termination behavior. The expected
  term represents an estimate of the time options are expected to remain outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect
  at the time of grant.  
  Compensation cost on a pre-tax basis related to stock options recognized in operating results (included in selling, general and administrative expenses) under SFAS No. 123R in 2007 and 2006 was
  $65 and $77 million, respectively. The associated future income tax benefit recognized in 2007 and 2006 was $25 and $28 million, respectively. Compensation cost related to stock options recognized in
  our Consolidated Statement of Operations in 2007 and 2006 includes (1) compensation cost for stock option awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of December 31, 2005, based on the grant-date
  fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS No. 123 and (2) compensation cost for stock option awards granted subsequent to December 31, 2005, based on the grant-date
  fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R.  
  76  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 in 2005, the year prior to the adoption of FAS
  No. 123R.  

2005    

Net income, as reported   

$   

1,638   

Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation cost determined under fair value method for stock option plans, net of related tax effects   

(53   
       
       )   

Pro forma net income   

$   

1,585   

Earnings per share of common stock:   

Basic as reported   

$   

1.93   

Basic pro forma   

$   

1.87   

Earnings per share of common stock:   

Assuming dilution as reported   

$   

1.92   

Assuming dilution pro forma   

$   

1.86   

The following table sets forth fair value per share information, including related weighted-average assumptions, used to determine compensation cost consistent with the requirements of SFAS No.
  123R in 2007 and 2006, and SFAS No. 123 in 2005.  

(1)   

Estimated on date of grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 

77  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  The following table summarizes information about stock option activity for the three years ended December 31, 2007:  

(1)   

The expected to vest options are the result of applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding options. 

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2007:  

(1)   

Average remaining contractual life in years. 

There were 37,902,956 and 42,416,585 options exercisable at weighted average exercise prices of $40.16 and $40.01 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. There were 38,279,009 shares
  available for future grants under the terms of our stock option plans at December 31, 2007.  
  The total intrinsic value of options (which is the amount by which the stock price exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of exercise) exercised during 2007 and 2006 was $281 and $92
  million, respectively. During 2007 and 2006, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $592 and $385 million, respectively, with an associated tax benefit realized of $101 and
  $31 million, respectively. Consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 123R, in 2007 and 2006 we classified $86 and $31 million, respectively, of this benefit as a financing cash inflow in the
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the balance was classified as cash from operations.  
  At December 31, 2007, there was $73 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.18
  years. The total fair value of options vested during 2007 and 2006 was $83 and $70 million, respectively.  
  78  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
    Restricted Stock Units   Restricted stock unit (RSU) awards entitle the holder to receive one share of common stock for each unit when the units vest. RSU s are issued to certain key employees at
  fair market value at the date of grant as compensation. RSUs typically become fully vested over periods ranging from three to seven years and are payable in Honeywell common stock upon vesting.  
  The following table summarizes information about RSU activity for the three years ended December 31, 2007:  

As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $153 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs granted under our stock plans which is expected to be
  recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.06 years. Compensation expense related to RSUs was $47, $29 and $24 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
    Non-Employee Directors  Plan   Under the Directors  Plan each new director receives a one-time grant of 3,000 shares of common stock, subject to specific restrictions.  
  The Directors  Plan also provides for an annual grant to each director of options to purchase 5,000 shares of common stock at the fair market value on the date of grant. Options have generally
  become exercisable over a three-year period and expire after ten years. Starting with 2007 option grants, the vesting period was extended to four years.  
   Note 21 Commitments and Contingencies   
   Environmental Matters   
  We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and
  procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances are in
  accordance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like other companies engaged in similar
  businesses, have incurred remedial response and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past
  production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future.  
  79  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  With respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually conduct studies, individually or jointly with other potentially responsible parties, to determine the feasibility of various
  remedial techniques to address environmental matters. It is our policy to record appropriate liabilities for environmental matters when remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the
  costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of the undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically
  as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal information becomes available. Given the uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement policies, the
  impact of other potentially responsible parties, technology and information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible
  environmental loss in excess of our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund expenditures for these matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a number of factors,
  including the timing of remedial investigations and feasibility studies, the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of
  cleanup projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreements with other parties. The following table summarizes information concerning our recorded liabilities for environmental costs:  

(1)   

In 2005, $45 million principally relates to reclassification of the carrying value of land to property, plant and equipment with a corresponding increase to environmental liabilities. 

Environmental liabilities are included in the following balance sheet accounts:  

Although we do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably estimate the amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of studies, litigation or settlements, and neither the
  timing nor the amount of the ultimate costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they could be material to our consolidated results of operations or operating cash flows in the periods
  recognized or paid. However, considering our past experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that these environmental matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
  position.  
    New Jersey Chrome Sites   Provisions have been made in our financial statements for the estimated costs of the court-ordered excavation and transport for offsite disposal of approximately one million
  tons of chromium residue present at a predecessor Honeywell site located in Jersey City, New Jersey, known as Study Area 7 ( SA 7 ). These expenditures have been and are expected to continue to be
  incurred evenly over a five-year period that started in April 2006. We do not expect implementation of this remedy to have a material adverse effect on our future consolidated results of  
  80  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  operations, operating cash flows or financial position. Provision also has been made in our financial statements for the estimated costs of implementing related groundwater remedial plans approved by the
  court, as well as sediment remedial plans which are presently under review by the court in which litigation concerning the site is pending. The ultimate cost of remediating the river sediments may be
  reduced as numerous third parties could be responsible for an as yet undetermined portion of these costs.  
  The above-referenced site is the most significant of the twenty-one sites located in Hudson County, New Jersey that are the subject of an Administrative Consent Order (ACO) entered into with the
  New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) in 1993. Remedial investigations and activities consistent with the ACO have been conducted and are underway at the other sites (the
   Honeywell ACO Sites ). We have recorded reserves for the Honeywell ACO Sites where appropriate under the accounting policy described above.  
  On May 3, 2005, NJDEP filed a lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court against Honeywell and two other companies seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, unspecified damages, and the
  reimbursement of unspecified total costs relating to sites in New Jersey allegedly contaminated with chrome ore processing residue. The claims against Honeywell relate to the activities of a predecessor
  company which ceased its New Jersey manufacturing operations in the mid-1950 s. While the complaint is not entirely clear, it appears that approximately 100 sites are at issue, including 17 of the
  Honeywell ACO Sites, sites that the other two companies have agreed to remediate under separate administrative consent orders, as well as approximately 53 other sites (identified in the complaint as the
   Publicly Funded Sites ) for which none of the three companies has signed an administrative consent order. In addition to claims specific to each company, NJDEP claims that all three companies should
  be collectively liable for all the chrome sites based on a  market share  theory. In addition, NJDEP is seeking treble damages for all costs it has incurred or will incur at the Publicly Funded Sites.
  Honeywell believes that it has no connection with the sites covered by the other companies  administrative consent orders and, therefore, has no responsibility for those sites. At the Honeywell ACO Sites,
  we are conducting remedial investigations and activities consistent with the ACO; thus, we do not believe the lawsuit will significantly change our obligations with respect to the Honeywell ACO Sites.  
  Lawsuits have also been filed against Honeywell in the District Court under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) by Jersey City and two of its municipal utilities seeking the cleanup
  of chromium residue at two Honeywell ACO Sites. In January 2008, Honeywell and Jersey City agreed to settle these claims, which settlement will become effective only upon the receipt of NJDEP
  approval of the remedial action workplan for these sites, classification by Jersey City of these and other related sites as an area in need of redevelopment and approval of the related redevelopment plan
  and agreement, and Court approval of this settlement. The remedial actions contemplated by this settlement are consistent with our recorded reserves.  
  RCRA litigation has also been filed against Honeywell by a citizens  group and thirteen other defendants with respect to contamination on about a dozen of the Honeywell ACO Sites. For the reasons
  stated above, we do not believe this lawsuit will significantly change our obligations with respect to the Honeywell ACO sites.  
  Although it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate outcome or resolution of the litigation and administrative proceedings discussed above, we do not expect that these matters will have a
  material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. While we expect to prevail on or settle these claims, an adverse litigation outcome could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
  results of operations and operating cash flows in the periods recognized or paid.  
    Dundalk Marine Terminal, Baltimore   Chrome residue from legacy chrome plant operations in Baltimore was deposited as fill at the Dundalk Marine Terminal ( DMT ), which is owned and operated
  by the Maryland Port Administration ( MPA ). Honeywell and the MPA have been sharing costs to  
  81  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  investigate and mitigate related environmental issues, and have entered into a cost sharing agreement under which Honeywell will bear a 77 percent share of the costs of developing and implementing
  permanent remedies for the DMT facility. The investigative phase (which began in April 2006) is expected to take approximately 18 to 36 months, after which the appropriate remedies will be identified and
  chosen. We have negotiated a Consent Decree with the MPA and Maryland Department of the Environment ( MDE ) with respect to the investigation and remediation of the DMT facility. The Consent
  Decree is being challenged in federal court by BUILD, a Baltimore community group, together with a local church and two individuals (collectively  BUILD ). In October 2007, the Court dismissed BUILD s
  state law claims with prejudice and dismissed BUILD s RCRA claims regarding neighborhoods near the DMT facility without prejudice. BUILD has since sent notice letters indicating that they intend to re-
  file these latter claims, which we will continue to oppose. The Court is expected to schedule a hearing in the second quarter of 2008 on the Company s motion to dismiss BUILD s remaining claims on the
  grounds that MDE is diligently prosecuting the investigation and remediation of the DMT. We do not believe that this matter will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position or
  operating cash flows. Given the scope and complexity of this project, it is possible that the cost of remediation, when determinable, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the
  periods recognized.  
    Onondaga Lake, Syracuse, NY   A predecessor company to Honeywell operated a chemical plant which is alleged to have contributed mercury and other contaminants to the Lake. In July 2005, the
  New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (the DEC) issued its Record of Decision with respect to remediation of industrial contamination in the Lake. In October 2006, Honeywell entered
  into a Consent Decree with the State of New York to implement the remedy set forth in the Record of Decision. In January 2007, the Consent Decree was approved by the United States District Court for
  the Northern District of New York.  
  The Record of Decision calls for a combined dredging/capping remedy generally in line with the approach recommended in the Feasibility Study submitted by Honeywell in May 2004. Based on
  currently available information and analysis performed by our engineering consultants, we have accrued for our estimated cost of implementing the remedy set forth in the Record of Decision. Our
  estimating process considered a range of possible outcomes and the amounts recorded reflect our best estimate at this time. Given the scope and complexity of this project, it is possible that actual costs
  could exceed estimated costs by an amount that could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and operating cash flows in the periods recognized or paid. At this time,
  however, we cannot identify any legal, regulatory or technical reason to conclude that a specific alternative outcome is more probable than the outcome for which we have made provisions in our financial
  statements. The DEC s aggregate cost estimate, which is higher than the amount reserved, is based on the high end of the range of potential costs for major elements of the Record of Decision and
  includes a contingency. The actual cost of the Record of Decision will depend upon, among other things, the resolution of certain technical issues during the design phase of the remediation. We do not
  believe that this matter will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position. In December 2006, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service published notice of its intent to pursue
  natural resource damages related to the site. It is not possible to predict the outcome or timing of its assessments, which are typically lengthy processes lasting several years, or the amounts of or
  responsibility for these damages.  
   Asbestos Matters   
  Like many other industrial companies, Honeywell is a defendant in personal injury actions related to asbestos. We did not mine or produce asbestos, nor did we make or sell insulation products or
  other construction materials that have been identified as the primary cause of asbestos related disease in the vast majority of claimants. Products containing asbestos previously manufactured by
  Honeywell or  
  82  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  by previously owned subsidiaries primarily fall into two general categories: refractory products and friction products.  
    Refractory Products   Honeywell owned North American Refractories Company (NARCO) from 1979 to 1986. NARCO produced refractory products (high temperature bricks and cement) that were
  sold largely to the steel industry in the East and Midwest. Less than 2 percent of NARCO S products contained asbestos.  
  When we sold the NARCO business in 1986, we agreed to indemnify NARCO with respect to personal injury claims for products that had been discontinued prior to the sale (as defined in the sale
  agreement). NARCO retained all liability for all other claims. On January 4, 2002, NARCO filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S Bankruptcy Code.  
  As a result of the NARCO bankruptcy filing, all of the claims pending against NARCO are automatically stayed pending the reorganization of NARCO. In addition, the bankruptcy court enjoined both
  the filing and prosecution of NARCO-related asbestos claims against Honeywell. The stay has remained in effect continuously since January 4, 2002. In connection with NARCO s bankruptcy filing, we
  paid NARCO s parent company $40 million and agreed to provide NARCO with up to $20 million in financing. We also agreed to pay $20 million to NARCO s parent company upon the filing of a plan of
  reorganization for NARCO acceptable to Honeywell (which amount was paid in December 2005 following the filing of NARCO s Third Amended Plan of Reorganization), and to pay NARCO s parent
  company $40 million, and to forgive any outstanding NARCO indebtedness to Honeywell, upon the effective date of the plan of reorganization.  
  We believe that, as part of NARCO plan of reorganization, a trust will be established for the benefit of all asbestos claimants, current and future, pursuant to Trust Distribution Procedures negotiated
  with the NARCO Asbestos Claimants Committee and the Court-appointed legal representative for future asbestos claimants. If the trust is put in place and approved by the Court as fair and equitable,
  Honeywell as well as NARCO will be entitled to a permanent channeling injunction barring all present and future individual actions in state or federal courts and requiring all asbestos related claims based
  on exposure to NARCO products to be made against the federally-supervised trust. Honeywell has reached agreement with the representative for future NARCO claimants and the Asbestos Claimants
  Committee to cap its annual contributions to the trust with respect to future claims at a level that would not have a material impact on Honeywell s operating cash flows.  
  In November 2007, the Bankruptcy Court entered an amended order confirming the NARCO Plan without modification and approving the 524(g) trust and channeling injunction in favor of NARCO and
  Honeywell. In December 2007, certain insurers filed an appeal from the Bankruptcy Court s amended confirmation order. This appeal is pending in the United States District Court for the Western District
  of Pennsylvania. No assurances can be given as to the time frame or outcome of this appeal. We expect that the stay enjoining litigation against NARCO and Honeywell to remain in effect during the
  pendency of these proceedings.  
  Our consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated liability for settlement of pending and future NARCO-related asbestos claims as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 of $1.1 and $1.3 billion,
  respectively. The estimated liability for pending claims is based on terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, in definitive agreements with approximately 260,000 current claimants, and an
  estimate of the unsettled claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection. Substantially all settlement payments with respect to current claims have been made as of December 31,
  2007. Approximately $95 million of payments due pursuant to these settlements is due only upon establishment of the NARCO trust.  
  The estimated liability for future claims represents the estimated value of future asbestos related bodily injury claims expected to be asserted against NARCO through 2018 and the aforementioned
  obligations to NARCO s parent. In light of the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections we  
  83  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims beyond 2018 under SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies . The estimate is based upon the disease criteria and
  payment values contained in the NARCO Trust Distribution Procedures negotiated with the NARCO Asbestos Claimants Committee and the NARCO future claimants  representative. Honeywell projected
  the probable number and value, including trust claim handling costs, of asbestos related future liabilities based upon experience of asbestos claims filing rates in the tort system and in certain operating
  asbestos trusts, and the claims experience in those forums. The valuation methodology also includes an analysis of the population likely to have been exposed to asbestos containing products,
  epidemiological studies to estimate the number of people likely to develop asbestos related diseases, NARCO claims filing history, the pending inventory of NARCO asbestos related claims and payment
  rates expected to be established by the NARCO trust. This methodology used to estimate the liability for future claims has been commonly accepted by numerous courts and is the same methodology that
  is utilized by an expert who is routinely retained by the asbestos claimants committee in asbestos related bankruptcies. In December 2006, as a result of significantly varying experiences of asbestos
  claims filing rates in the tort system (as a result of more clearly defined proof requirements) and in certain operating asbestos trusts, we updated the range of estimated liability for future NARCO-related claims. Such update resulted in a range of estimated liability for future claims of $743 to $961
  million. We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount. Accordingly, in December 2006 we recorded the minimum amount in the range which resulted in a
  reduction of $207 million in our estimated liability for future NARCO-related asbestos claims. There has been no new data or developments during 2007 which would warrant a change in our estimated
  liability for future NARCO-related asbestos claims.  
  As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, our consolidated financial statements reflect an insurance receivable corresponding to the liability for settlement of pending and future NARCO-related asbestos
  claims of $939 and $955 million, respectively. This coverage reimburses Honeywell for portions of the costs incurred to settle NARCO related claims and court judgments as well as defense costs and is
  provided by a large number of insurance policies written by dozens of insurance companies in both the domestic insurance market and the London excess market. At December 31, 2007, a significant
  portion of this coverage is with insurance companies with whom we have agreements to pay full policy limits based on corresponding Honeywell claims costs. We conduct analyses to determine the
  amount of insurance that we estimate is probable of recovery in relation to payment of current and estimated future claims. While the substantial majority of our insurance carriers are solvent, some of our
  individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. We made judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with
  our historical dealings with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers and various judicial determinations relevant to our insurance programs.  
  In the second quarter of 2006, Travelers Casualty and Insurance Company ( Travelers ) filed a lawsuit against Honeywell and other insurance carriers in the Supreme Court of New York, County of
  New York, disputing obligations for NARCO-related asbestos claims under high excess insurance coverage issued by Travelers and other insurance carriers. Approximately $340 million of coverage under
  these policies is included in our NARCO-related insurance receivable at December 31, 2007. Honeywell believes it is entitled to the coverage at issue and has filed counterclaims in the Superior Court of
  New Jersey seeking, among other things, declaratory relief with respect to this coverage. In the third quarter of 2007, Honeywell prevailed in the New York action on a critical choice of law issue
  concerning the appropriate method of allocating NARCO-related asbestos liabilities to triggered policies. The Court s ruling is subject to appeal. While Honeywell expects to prevail in this matter, an
  adverse outcome could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period recognized but would not be material to our consolidated financial position or operating cash flows.  
  84  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Projecting future events is subject to many uncertainties that could cause the NARCO related asbestos liabilities or assets to be higher or lower than those projected and recorded. There is no
  assurance that the plan of reorganization will become final, that insurance recoveries will be timely or whether there will be any NARCO related asbestos claims beyond 2018. Given the inherent
  uncertainty in predicting future events, we review our estimates periodically, and update them based on our experience and other relevant factors. Similarly we will reevaluate our projections concerning
  our probable insurance recoveries in light of any changes to the projected liability or other developments that may impact insurance recoveries.  
    Friction Products   Honeywell s Bendix friction materials (Bendix) business manufactured automotive brake parts that contained chrysotile asbestos in an encapsulated form. There is a group of
  existing and potential claimants consisting largely of individuals who allege exposure to asbestos from brakes from either performing or being in the vicinity of individuals who performed brake
  replacements.  
  From 1981 through December 31, 2007, we have resolved approximately 113,000 Bendix related asbestos claims. Trials covering 126 plaintiffs resulted in 125 favorable verdicts and one mistrial.
  Trials covering ten individuals resulted in adverse verdicts; however, two of these verdicts were reversed on appeal, five are or shortly will be on appeal, and the remaining three claims were settled. The
  following tables present information regarding Bendix related asbestos claims activity:  

Approximately 45 percent of the approximately 52,000 pending claims at December 31, 2007 are on the inactive, deferred, or similar dockets established in some jurisdictions for claimants who allege
  minimal or no impairment. The approximately 52,000 pending claims also include claims filed in jurisdictions such as Texas, Virginia, and Mississippi that historically allowed for consolidated filings. In
  these jurisdictions, plaintiffs were permitted to file complaints against a pre-determined master list of defendants, regardless of whether they have claims against each individual defendant. Many of these
  plaintiffs may not actually intend to assert claims against Honeywell. Based on state rules and prior experience in these jurisdictions, we anticipate that many of these claims will ultimately be dismissed.
  During 2006 approximately 16,000 cases were dismissed. More than 85 percent of these dismissals occurred in Mississippi as a result of judicial rulings relating to non-resident filings and venue. We
  continue to experience dismissals in this jurisdiction.  
  Honeywell has experienced average resolution values per claim excluding legal costs as follows:  

85  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  It is not possible to predict whether resolution values for Bendix related asbestos claims will increase, decrease or stabilize in the future.  
  Our consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated liability for resolution of pending and future Bendix related asbestos claims of $517 and $528 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
  respectively. Prior to December 2006, we only accrued for the estimated cost of pending Bendix related asbestos claims as we could not reasonably estimate losses which could arise from future Bendix
  related asbestos claims. Due to the steady three-year decline in the rate of Bendix related asbestos claims filed and reduced volatility in those rates, we felt that it was now possible to determine a
  reasonable estimate of the costs that would be incurred for claims filed over the next five years. Accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded a reserve of $335 million for the estimated cost
  of future Bendix related asbestos claims based on the historic claims filing experience, disease classifications, expected resolution values, and historic dismissal rates. In December 2007, we updated our
  analysis of the estimated cost of future Bendix related asbestos claims which resulted in a reduction of the reserve to $327 million at December 31, 2007. In December 2006, we also changed our
  methodology for valuing Bendix pending and future claims from using average resolution values for the previous five years to using average resolution values for the previous two years which resulted in a
  reduction of $118 million in the reserve for pending Bendix claims in the fourth quarter of 2006. The claims filing experience and resolution data for Bendix related claims has become more reliable over the
  past several years. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we updated our methodology for valuing Bendix pending and future claims using the average resolution values for the past three years of
  data, which resulted in a $10 million reduction in the reserve for pending Bendix claims. We will continue to update the expected resolution values used to estimate the cost of pending and future Bendix
  claims during the fourth quarter each year.  
  The estimated liability for future claims represents the estimated value of future asbestos related bodily injury claims expected to be asserted against Bendix over the next five years. In light of the
  uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections, as well as certain factors unique to friction product asbestos claims, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos
  claims beyond the next five years under SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies . The estimate is based upon Bendix historical experience in the tort system for the three years ended December 31,
  2007 with respect to claims filing and resolution values. The methodology used to estimate the liability for future claims has been commonly accepted by numerous courts. It is similar to that used to
  estimate the future NARCO related asbestos claims liability.  
  Honeywell currently has approximately $1.9 billion of insurance coverage remaining with respect to pending and potential future Bendix related asbestos claims, of which $197 and $302 million are
  reflected as receivables in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This coverage is provided by a large number of insurance policies written by dozens of insurance
  companies in both the domestic insurance market and the London excess market. Insurance receivables are recorded in the financial statements simultaneous with the recording of the liability for the
  estimated value of the underlying asbestos claims. The amount of the insurance receivable recorded is based on our ongoing analysis of the insurance that we estimate is probable of recovery. This
  determination is based on our analysis of the underlying insurance policies, our historical experience with our insurers, our ongoing review of the solvency of our insurers, our interpretation of judicial
  determinations relevant to our insurance programs, and our consideration of the impacts of any settlements reached with our insurers. Insurance receivables are also recorded when structured insurance
  settlements provide for future fixed payment streams that are not contingent upon future claims or other events. Such amounts are recorded at the net present value of the fixed payment stream.  
  On a cumulative historical basis, Honeywell has recorded insurance receivables equal to approximately 50 percent of the value of the underlying asbestos claims recorded. However, because  
  86  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  there are gaps in our coverage due to insurance company insolvencies, certain uninsured periods, and insurance settlements, this rate is expected to decline for any future Bendix related asbestos
  liabilities that may be recorded. Future recoverability rates may also be impacted by numerous other factors, such as future insurance settlements, insolvencies and judicial determinations relevant to our
  coverage program, which are difficult to predict. Assuming continued defense and indemnity spending at current levels, we estimate that the cumulative recoverability rate could decline over the next five
  years to approximately 40 percent.  
  Honeywell believes it has sufficient insurance coverage and reserves to cover all pending Bendix related asbestos claims and Bendix related asbestos claims estimated to be filed within the next five
  years. Although it is impossible to predict the outcome of either pending or future Bendix related asbestos claims, we do not believe that such claims would have a material adverse effect on our
  consolidated financial position in light of our insurance coverage and our prior experience in resolving such claims. If the rate and types of claims filed, the average resolution value of such claims and the
  period of time over which claim settlements are paid (collectively, the  Variable Claims Factors ) do not substantially change, Honeywell would not expect future Bendix related asbestos claims to have a
  material adverse effect on our results of operations or operating cash flows in any fiscal year. No assurances can be given, however, that the Variable Claims Factors will not change.  
    Refractory and Friction Products   The following tables summarize information concerning NARCO and Bendix asbestos related balances:  
   Asbestos Related Liabilities   

(1)   

In 2006, charge of $32 million reflects a settlement of certain pending asbestos claims. In 2005, consists of a charge of $52 million to reflect a settlement of certain pending asbestos claims during the
      year and a credit of $73 million related to a re-estimation of asbestos reserves in connection with an additional settlement. 

87  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Insurance Recoveries for Asbestos Related Liabilities   

(1)   

In 2006, $34 million reflects gains from settlements with two Bendix insurance carriers and $41 million represents the write-down of the NARCO insurance receivable to reflect the reduction in the
      estimated cost of future claims. In 2005, consists of gains from insurance settlements of $172 million principally related to a structured insurance settlement with a carrier which converted a policy into
      a future, fixed, non-contingent payment stream, and charges of $131 million for write-offs of certain amounts due from insurance carriers. 

NARCO and Bendix asbestos related balances are included in the following balance sheet accounts:  

Other Matters   
    Allen, et, al. v. Honeywell Retirement Earnings Plan   During the third quarter of 2007, we agreed to a   settlement in principle with the plaintiffs in this class action lawsuit relating to allegations that,
  among other things, Honeywell impermissibly reduced the pension benefits of certain employees of the former Garrett Corporation (a predecessor entity by merger) when the plan was amended in 1983
  and failed to calculate certain benefits in accordance with the terms of the plan. Under the terms of the settlement, 18 of the 21 claims alleged by plaintiffs would be dismissed with prejudice in exchange
  for approximately $35 million, and the maximum aggregate liability for the remaining three claims would be capped at $500 million. During the third quarter of 2007, we recorded the $35 million settlement
  as part of pension expense (see Note 22). Any amounts payable, including the settlement amount, will be paid from the Company s pension plan. The definitive settlement agreement received final
  approval from the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona in February 2008. We continue to expect to prevail on the remaining claims in light of applicable law and our substantial affirmative defenses,
  which have not yet been considered by the Court. Accordingly, we do not believe that a liability is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable with respect to these claims and we have  
  88  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  not recorded a provision for the remaining claims in our financial statements. Although we expect to prevail on all three of the remaining claims, an adverse ruling on one or more of these claims could
  have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized. We do not believe that an adverse outcome in this matter would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
  operating cash flows or consolidated financial position.  
  We are subject to a number of other lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to
  commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual property, and health and safety matters. We recognize a liability for
  any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of adverse judgments of outcomes in these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable
  losses (taking into consideration any insurance recoveries), based on a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts.  
  Given the uncertainty inherent in litigation, we do not believe it is possible to develop estimates of the range of reasonably possible loss in excess of current accruals for these matters. Considering our
  past experience and existing accruals, we do not expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.
  Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, potential liabilities are subject to change due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary
  requirements, which could cause us to pay damage awards or settlements (or become subject to equitable remedies) that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or operating
  cash flows in the periods recognized or paid.  
    Warranties and Guarantees   We have issued or are a party to the following direct and indirect guarantees at December 31, 2007:  

Maximum Potential Future Payments    

Operating lease residual values   

$   

39   

Other third parties  financing   

4   

Unconsolidated affiliates  financing   

3   

Customer financing   

23   

$   

69   

We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  
  In connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of environmental contamination, if any, existing on the
  date of disposition. Such expected costs are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.  
  In the normal course of business we issue product warranties and product performance guarantees. We accrue for the estimated cost of product warranties and performance guarantees based on
  contract terms and historical experience at the time of sale. Adjustments to initial obligations for warranties and guarantees are made as changes in the obligations become reasonably estimable. The
  following table summarizes information concerning our recorded obligations for product warranties and product performance guarantees:  
  89  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   

Product warranties and product performance guarantees are included in the following balance sheet accounts:  

Note 22 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits   
  We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of our employees and retirees. Pension benefits for substantially all U.S. employees are
  provided through non-contributory, qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans. U.S. defined benefit pension plans comprise 73 percent of our projected benefit obligation. Non-U.S.
  employees, who are not U.S. citizens, are covered by various retirement benefit arrangements, some of which are considered to be defined benefit pension plans for accounting purposes. Non-U.S.
  defined benefit pension plans comprise 27 percent of our projected benefit obligation.  
  We also sponsor postretirement benefit plans that provide health care benefits and life insurance coverage to eligible retirees. Our retiree medical plans mainly cover U.S. employees who retire with
  pension eligibility for hospital, professional and other medical services. All non-union hourly and salaried employees joining Honeywell after January 1, 2000 are not eligible to participate in our retiree
  medical and life insurance plans. Most of the U.S. retiree medical plans require deductibles and copayments, and virtually all are integrated with Medicare. Retiree contributions are generally required
  based on coverage type, plan and Medicare eligibility. Honeywell has limited its subsidy of its retiree medical plans to a fixed-dollar amount for substantially all future retirees and for almost half of its
  current retirees. This cap of retiree medical benefits under our plans limits our exposure to the impact of future health care cost increases. The retiree medical and life insurance plans are not funded.
  Claims and expenses are paid from our operating cash flow.  
  As discussed in Note 1, we adopted SFAS No. 158 as of December 31, 2006. SFAS No. 158 requires that we recognize on a prospective basis the funded status of our defined benefit pension and
  other postretirement benefit plans on the consolidated balance sheet and recognize as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service
  costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. Additional minimum pension liabilities and related intangible assets were also derecognized
  upon adoption of the new standard. The adjustment for SFAS No. 158 affected our 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:  
  90  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   

Decrease in prepaid pension benefit cost   

$   

(2,071   
       
       )   

Decrease in intangible asset   

(79   
       
       )   

Decrease in accrued and minimum pension liability   

138   

Increase in postretirement benefit obligations other than pensions   

(340   
       
       )   

Increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss, pre-tax   

(2,352   
       
       )   

Increase in income tax benefit   

840   

Increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax(1)   

$   

(1,512   
       
       )   

(1)   

Represents $1,708 million reduction of shareowners  equity including a $196 million adjustment related to our additional minimum liability. 

91  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  The following tables summarize the balance sheet impact, including the benefit obligations, assets and funded status associated with our significant pension and other postretirement benefit plans at
  December 31, 2007 and 2006.  

92  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (loss) at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows.  

The accumulated benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans was $16.0 and $16.2 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  
  The components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss for our significant plans include the following components:  

The estimated net loss and prior service cost for pension benefits that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost in 2008 are expected to be
  $48 and $28 million, respectively. The estimated net loss and prior service credit for other postretirement benefits that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net
  periodic benefit cost in 2008 are expected to be $35 and $(40) million, respectively.  
  93  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Major actuarial assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for our U.S. benefit plans are presented in the following table. For non-U.S. benefit plans, no one
  of which was individually material, assumptions reflect economic assumptions applicable to each country.  

To select a discount rate for our retirement benefit plans, we use a modeling process that involves matching the expected cash outflows of our benefit plans to a yield curve constructed from a
  portfolio of double A rated fixed-income debt instruments. We use the average yield of this hypothetical portfolio as a discount rate benchmark. The discount rate used to determine the other
  postretirement benefit obligation is lower due to a shorter expected duration of other postretirement plan obligations as compared to pension plan obligations.  
  Our expected rate of return on plan assets of 9 percent is a long-term rate based on historic plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with current market conditions and broad asset
  mix considerations. The expected rate of return is a long-term assumption and generally does not change annually.  
  Mortality assumptions for our U.S. benefit plans were updated as of December 31, 2005 using the RP2000 Mortality table for all participants.  
   Pension Benefits   
  Included in the aggregate data in the tables below are the amounts applicable to our pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations exceeding the fair value of plan assets, as well as plans with
  projected benefit obligations exceeding the fair value of plan assets. Amounts related to such plans were as follows:  

94  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  Our U.S. pension plans assets were $13.0 and $12.8 billion and our non-U.S. pension plans assets were $4.2 and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our asset allocation and
  target allocation for our pension plans assets are as follows:  

Our asset investment strategy focuses on maintaining a diversified portfolio using various asset classes in order to achieve our long-term investment objectives on a risk adjusted basis. Our actual
  invested positions in various securities change over time based on short and longer-term investment opportunities. To achieve our objectives, our U.S. investment policy requires that our U.S. Master
  Retirement Trust be invested as follows: (a) no less than 5 percent be invested in fixed income securities; (b) no more than 10 percent in private real estate investments; and (c) no more than 18 percent in
  other investment alternatives involving limited partnerships of various types. There is no stated limit on investments in publicly-held U.S. and international equity securities. Our non-U.S. investment
  policies are different for each country, but the long-term investment objectives remain the same.  
  Our general funding policy for qualified pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to satisfy regulatory funding standards. In 2007 and 2006, we made voluntary contributions of $42 and
  $68 million, respectively, to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans primarily for government contracting purposes. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with our expected rate of 9 percent
  in 2008 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, we would not be required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans for the foreseeable future. We expect to make voluntary
  contributions of approximately $40 million in cash in 2008 to certain of our U.S. plans for government contracting purposes. We also expect to contribute approximately $125 million in cash in 2008 to our
  non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans to satisfy regulatory funding standards. These contributions do not reflect benefits to be paid directly from Company assets.  
  Benefit payments, including amounts to be paid from Company assets, and reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:  

Other Postretirement Benefits   
  FASB Staff Position No. 106-2  Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003  (FSP No. 106-2) provides guidance
  on accounting for the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) for employers that sponsor postretirement health care plans that provide prescription
  drug coverage that is at least actuarially equivalent to that offered by Medicare Part D. The impact of  
  95  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  the Act reduced other postretirement benefits expense by approximately $25, $37 and $45 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

The assumed health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects:  

1 percentage point    

Increase    

Decrease    

Effect on total of service and interest cost components   

$   

6   

$   

(5   
       
       )   

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

$   

79   

$   

(70   
       
       )   

Benefit payments reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:  

Employee Savings Plans   
  We sponsor employee savings plans under which we match, in the form of our common stock, savings plan contributions for certain eligible U.S. employees. Shares issued under the stock match
  plans were 3.7, 4.5 and 4.1 million at a cost of $199, $179 and $153 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  
  96  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 23 Segment Financial Data   
  We globally manage our business operations through four reportable operating segments serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, control, sensing and security
  technologies for buildings, homes and industry, automotive products and chemicals. Segment information is consistent with how management reviews the businesses, makes investing and resource
  allocation decisions and assesses operating performance. Our four reportable segments are as follows:  

Aerospace is organized by customer end-market (Air Transport and Regional, Business and General Aviation and Defense and Space) and provides products and services which include auxiliary
      power units; propulsion engines; environmental control systems; engine controls; repair and overhaul services; hardware; logistics; electric power systems; flight safety, communications, navigation,
      radar and surveillance systems; aircraft lighting; management and technical services; advanced systems and instruments; and aircraft wheels and brakes.   

Automation and Control Solutions includes Products (controls for heating, cooling, indoor air quality, ventilation, humidification and home automation; advanced software applications for home/
      building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow, temperature and electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; access
      control; video surveillance; and remote patient monitoring systems); Building Solutions (installs, maintains and upgrades systems that keep buildings safe, comfortable and productive); and Process
      Solutions (provides a full range of automation and control solutions for industrial plants, offering advanced software and automation systems that integrate, control and monitor complex processes in
      many types of industrial settings).   

Specialty Materials includes fluorocarbons, specialty films, advanced fibers, customized research chemicals and intermediates, electronic materials and chemicals, and catalysts and adsorbents.   

Transportation Systems includes Honeywell Turbo Technologies (turbochargers and charge-air and thermal systems); and the Consumer Products Group (car care products including anti-freeze,
      filters, spark plugs, and cleaners, waxes and additives; and brake hard parts and other friction materials).  

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Honeywell s senior management evaluates segment performance based on segment profit. Segment profit is
  business unit income (loss) before taxes excluding general corporate unallocated expenses, other income (expense), interest and other financial charges, pension and other postretirement benefits
  (expense), stock option expense, repositioning and other charges and accounting changes. Intersegment sales approximate market prices and are not significant. Reportable segment data follows:  
  97  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   

98  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
  A reconciliation of segment profit to consolidated income from continuing operations before taxes is as follows:  

(1)   

Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. 

Note 24 Geographic Areas Financial Data   

(1)   

Sales between geographic areas approximate market and are not significant. Net sales are classified according to their country of origin. Included in United States net sales are export sales of $3,427,
      $3,493 and $2,780 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

(2)   

Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.  

Note 25 Supplemental Cash Flow Information   

99  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)     (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   
   Note 26 Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information   

(1)   

From composite tape-stock is primarily traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

100  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  T  O     THE  
 B  OARD     OF  
 D  IRECTORS     AND  
 S  HAREOWNERS     OF   H  ONEYWELL  
 I  NTERNATIONAL  
 I  NC  .:  
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1.) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Honeywell International Inc. and its
  subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles
  generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2.) presents fairly, in all material respects, the
  information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
  financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
  (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
  the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
  these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the
  standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
  statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
  on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
  overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
  weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered
  necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  
  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for income tax uncertainties in 2007, the manner in which it accounts for stock-
  based compensation and defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in 2006 and the manner in which it accounts for conditional asset retirement obligations in 2005.  
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
  external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
  of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
  to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
  authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
  assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
  risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
  Florham Park, New Jersey February 14, 2008  
  101  

Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
  Not Applicable.  
   Item 9A.     Controls and Procedures    
  Honeywell management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the
  period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were
  effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K to ensure information required to be disclosed in the reports that Honeywell files or submits under the Exchange Act is
  recorded, processed, sumarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. There have been no changes that have materially affected, or
  are reasonably likely to materially affect, Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting that have occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
     Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Honeywell management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act
  of 1934. Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
  for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:  
  (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of Honeywell s assets;  
  (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
  receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Honeywell s management and directors; and  
  (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Honeywell s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
  statements.  
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
  the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  Management assessed the effectiveness of Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
  Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework.   
  Based on this assessment, management determined that Honeywell maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007.  
  The effectiveness of Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accouting firm,
  as stated in their report which is included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
  102  

Item 9B.     Other Information    
  Not Applicable.  
   Part III.   
   Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    
  Information relating to the Directors of Honeywell, as well as information relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, will be contained in our definitive Proxy
  Statement involving the election of the Directors which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after December 31, 2007, and such information is incorporated herein
  by reference. Certain other information relating to the Executive Officers of Honeywell appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading  Executive Officers of the Registrant .  
  The members of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors are: Scott Davis (Chair), Linnet Deily, James J. Howard, Eric K. Shinseki, John R. Stafford, and Michael W. Wright. The Board has
  determined that Mr. Davis is the  audit committee financial expert  as defined by applicable SEC rules and that Mr. Davis and Ms. Deily satisfy the  accounting or related financial management expertise 
  criteria established by the NYSE. All members of the Audit Committee are  independent  as that term is defined in applicable SEC Rules and NYSE listing standards.  
  Honeywell s Code of Business Conduct is available, free of charge, on our website under the heading  Investor Relations  (see  Corporate Governance ), or by writing to Honeywell, 101 Columbia
  Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962, c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell s Code of Business Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief Executive
  Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees. Amendments to or waivers of the Code of Business Conduct granted to any of Honeywell s directors or executive officers will be published
  on our website within five business days of such amendment or waiver.  
   Item 11.     Executive Compensation    
  Information relating to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  and such information is
  incorporated herein by reference.  
   Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
  Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in  Item 10. Directors
  and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  and such information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS   
  As of December 31, 2007 Information about our equity compensation plans is as follows:  
  103  

(1)   

Equity compensation plans approved by shareowners that are included in column (a) of the table are the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (the  2006 Stock
      Incentive Plan ) (6,103,925 shares of Common Stock to be issued for options; 3,771,170 restricted units subject to continued employment); the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International
      Inc. and its Affiliates (the  2003 Stock Incentive Plan ) (17,494,110 shares of Common Stock to be issued for options; 4,500 shares to be issued for SARs; 1,779,975 restricted units subject to
      continued employment; and 947,025 deferred restricted units of earned and vested awards under prior plans approved by shareowners where delivery of shares has been deferred); the 1993 Stock
      Plan for Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (16,149,756 shares of Common Stock to be issued for options; 69,900 shares to be issued for SARs; and 431,230 restricted units
      subject to continued employment); the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Non-Employee Director Plan ) (110,000 shares of Common Stock to be issued
      for options and 3,000 shares of restricted stock), and the 1994 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. (181,500 shares of Common Stock to be issued for options and
      33,000 shares of restricted stock). 
      822,060
        growth plan units were issued in the first quarter of 2005 pursuant to
        a long-term compensation program established under the 2003 Stock Incentive
        Plan. The ultimate value of any growth plan award may be paid in cash
        or shares of Common Stock and, thus, growth plan units are not included
        in the table above. The ultimate value of growth plan units depends upon
        the achievement of pre-established performance goals during a two-year
        performance cycle relating to growth in earnings per share, revenue and
        return on investment. The growth plan units issued in the first quarter
        of 2005 relate to the performance cycle commencing January 1, 2005 and
        ending December 31, 2006. 50% of any cash payment related to these growth
        plan units was paid in March 2007 and the remaining 50% of the cash payment
        will be paid in March 2008, subject to active employment on the payment
        dates.  
      899,840 growth plan units were issued in the first quarter of 2007 for the performance cycle commencing on January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2008 pursuant to the 2006 Stock Incentive
      Plan. The ultimate value of any growth plan award may be paid in cash or shares of Common Stock and, thus, growth plan units are not included in the table above. The ultimate value of growth plan
      units depends upon the achievement of pre-established performance goals during a two-year performance cycle relating to growth in earnings per share, revenue and return on investment. 50% of any
      payment related to these growth plan units will be paid in March 2009 and the remaining 50% will be paid in March 2010, subject to active employment on the payment dates.  
      Because the number of future shares that may be distributed to employees participating in the Honeywell Global Stock Plan is unknown, no shares attributable to that plan are included in column (a) of
      the table above.   

(2)   

Column (b) does not include any exercise price for restricted units or growth plan units granted to employees or non-employee directors under equity compensation plans approved by shareowners.
      Restricted units do not have an exercise price because their value is dependent upon attainment of    

104  

certain performance goals or continued employment or service and they are settled for shares of Common Stock on a one-for-one basis. Growth plan units are denominated in cash units and the
      ultimate value of the award is dependent upon attainment of certain performance goals.   

(3)   

The number of shares that may be issued under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2007 is 37,894,009 which includes the following additional shares under the 2006 Stock Incentive
      Plan (or any Prior Plan as defined in the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) that may again be available for issuance: shares that are settled for cash, expire, are cancelled, are tendered in satisfaction of an
      option exercise price or tax withholding obligations, are reacquired with cash tendered in satisfaction of an option exercise price or with monies attributable to any tax deduction enjoyed by Honeywell
      to the exercise of an option, and are under any outstanding awards assumed under any equity compensation plan of an entity acquired by Honeywell.  
      The number of shares that may be issued under the Honeywell Global Stock Plan as of December 31, 2007 is 3,425,391. This plan is an umbrella plan for five plans maintained solely for eligible
      employees of participating non-U.S. countries. One sub-plan, the Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan, allows eligible employees to contribute between 2.2% and 8.8% of base pay from January
      through September of each year to purchase shares of Common Stock at a 15% discount the following November. For 2007 and prior years, Honeywell purchased shares through non-dilutive, open
      market purchases. Employees purchased 429,383 shares of Common Stock at $38.335 per share in 2007 and 383,178 shares of Common Stock at $31.84 per share in 2006.  
      Another sub-plan, the UK Sharebuilder Plan, allows an eligible UK employee to contribute a specified percentage of taxable earnings that is then invested in shares. The company matches those
      shares and dividends paid are used to purchase additional shares. Matched shares are subject to a three-year vesting schedule. Shares taken out of the plan before five years lose their tax-favored
      status. For the year ending December 31, 2007, 126,267 shares were credited to participants  accounts under the UK Sharebuilder Plan.  
      The remaining three sub-plans, Honeywell International Technologies Employees Share Ownership Plan (Ireland), the Honeywell Measurex (Ireland) Limited Group Employee Profit Sharing Scheme
      and the Honeywell Ireland Software Employees Share Ownership Plan, allow eligible Irish employees to contribute specified percentages of base pay, bonus or performance pay that are then invested
      in shares. Shares must be held in trust for at least two years and lose their tax-favored status if they are taken out of the plan before three years. For the year ending December 31, 2007, 18,959
      shares were credited to participants  accounts under these three plans.  
      The remaining 385,000 shares included in column (c) are shares remaining for future grants under the Non-Employee Director Plan.   

(4)   

Equity compensation plans not approved by shareowners that are included in the table are the Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees of Honeywell
      International Inc. and its Subsidiaries, the AlliedSignal Incentive Compensation Plan for Executive Employees of AlliedSignal Inc. and its Subsidiaries, and the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-
      Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc.  
      The Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Subsidiaries is an unfunded, non-tax qualified plan that provides benefits
      equal to the employee deferrals and company matching allocations that would have been provided under Honeywell s U.S. tax-qualified savings plan if the Internal Revenue Code limitations on
      compensation and contributions did not apply. The company matching contribution is credited to participants  accounts in the form of notional shares of Common Stock. Additional notional shares are
      credited to participants  accounts equal to the value of any cash dividends payable on actual shares of Common Stock. The notional shares are distributed in the form of actual shares of Common
      Stock when payments are made to participants under the plan.  
      The AlliedSignal Incentive Compensation Plan for Executive Employees of AlliedSignal Inc. and its Subsidiaries was a cash incentive compensation plan maintained by AlliedSignal Inc. This plan has
      expired. Employees were permitted to defer receipt of a cash bonus payable under the plan and    

105  

invest the deferred bonus in notional shares of Common Stock. The notional shares are distributed in the form of actual shares of Common Stock when payments are made to participants under the
      plan. No further deferrals can be made under this plan. The number of shares of Common Stock that remain to be issued under this expired plan as of December 31, 2007 is 52,797. 
      The Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. provides for mandatory and elective deferral of certain payments to non-employee directors. Mandatory
      deferrals are invested in notional shares of Common Stock. Directors may also invest any elective deferrals in notional shares of Common Stock. Additional notional shares are credited to participant
      accounts equal to the value of any cash dividends payable on actual shares of Common Stock. Notional shares of Common Stock are converted to an equivalent amount of cash at the time the
      distributions are made from the plan to directors. However, one former director is entitled to receive periodic distributions of actual shares of Common Stock that were notionally allocated to his account
      in years prior to 1992. The number of shares of Common Stock that remain to be issued to directors under this plan as of December 31, 2007 is 1,497.   

(5)   

Column (b) does not include any exercise price for notional shares allocated to employees under Honeywell s equity compensation plans not approved by shareowners because all of these shares are
      notionally allocated as a matching contribution under the non-tax qualified savings plans or as a notional investment of deferred bonuses or fees under the cash incentive compensation and directors 
      plans as described in note 4 and are only settled for shares of Common Stock on a one-for-one basis.   

(6)   

No securities are available for future issuance under the AlliedSignal Incentive Compensation Plan for Executive Employees of AlliedSignal Inc. and its Subsidiaries and the Deferred Compensation
      Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. The cash incentive compensation plan has expired. All notional investments in shares of Common Stock are converted to cash when
      payments are made under the directors  plan (other than with respect to 1,497 shares of Common Stock included in column (a) that is payable to one former director). The amount of securities
      available for future issuance under the Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Subsidiaries is not determinable because
      the number of securities that may be issued under this plan depends upon the amount deferred to the plan by participants in future years.  

The table does not contain information for the following plans and arrangements:  

Employee benefit plans of Honeywell intended to meet the requirements of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and a small number of foreign employee benefit plans that are similar to
      such Section 401(a) plans.   

Equity compensation plans maintained by Honeywell Inc. immediately prior to the merger of Honeywell Inc. and AlliedSignal Inc. on December 1, 1999. The right to receive Honeywell International
      Inc. securities was substituted for the right to receive Honeywell Inc. securities under these plans. No new awards have been granted under these plans after the merger date. The number of shares
      to be issued under these plans upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights is 1,251,561 and their weighted-average exercise price is $48.18.  

Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    
  Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  and such
  information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   Item 14.     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
  Information relating to fees paid to and services performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in 2007 and 2006 and our Audit Committee s pre-approval policies and procedures with respect to non-
  audit services are contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  and such information is incorporated herein by reference.  
  106  

Part IV.   
   Item 15.     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

(a)(2.) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules:   

Page Number in Form 10-K    

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

113   

All other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable to us or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  
  (a)(3.) Exhibits  
  See the Exhibit Index on pages 109 through 112 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
  107  

SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
  duly authorized.  

H  ONEYWELL  
 I  NTERNATIONAL  
 I  NC  .   

February 15, 2008   

By:   

/s/ Talia M. Griep   

Talia
        M. Griep 
    Vice President and Controller      

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
date indicated:  

Name   
       
       Name   

*  
       
      *  

David M. Cote  
       
      James J. Howard  

Chairman of the Board,  
       
      Director  

Chief Executive Officer  

and Director  
       
      *  

Ivan G. Seidenberg  

*  
       
      Director  

Gordon M. Bethune  

Director  
       
      *  

Bradley T. Sheares, Ph.D.  

*  
       
      Director  

Jaime Chico Pardo  

Director  
       
      *  

Eric K. Shinseki  

*  
       
      Director  

D. Scott Davis  

Director  
       
      *  

John R. Stafford  

*  
       
      Director  

Linnet F. Deily  

Director  
       
      *  

Michael W. Wright  

*  
       
      Director  

Clive R. Hollick  

Director  
       
      /s/ Talia M. Griep  

Talia M. Griep  

/s/ David J. Anderson  
       
      Vice President and Controller  

David J. Anderson  
       
      (Principal Accounting Officer)  

Senior Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

*By:  
       
      /s/ David J. Anderson  

(David J. Anderson  

Attorney-in-fact)  

February 15, 2008  
  108  

EXHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibit No.    

Description    

2    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

3(i)    

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Honeywell International Inc., as amended April 25, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 2005)   

3(ii)    

By-laws of Honeywell, as amended December 8, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2006)   

4    

Honeywell International Inc. is a party to several long-term debt instruments under which, in each case, the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets
      of Honeywell and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A) of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Honeywell agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to
      the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.   

9    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

10.1*    

2003 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc., and its Affiliates (incorporated by reference to Honeywell s Proxy Statement, dated March 17, 2003, filed pursuant to Rule 14a-6
      of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and amended by Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed December 21, 2004 and by Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 2006)   

10.2*    

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc., as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q
      for quarter ended June 30, 2003, amended by Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed December 21, 2004 and by Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 2005)   

10.3*    

Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of AlliedSignal Inc., as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 and by
      Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007)   

10.4*    

1985 Stock Plan for Employees of AlliedSignal Inc. and its Subsidiaries, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19.3 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
      September 30, 1991)   

10.5*    

AlliedSignal, Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan for Executive Employees, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to Honeywell s Proxy Statement, dated March 10, 1994,
      filed pursuant to Rule 14a-6 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, and amended by Exhibit 10.5 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999)   

10.6*    

Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Subsidiaries as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 10.6 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and by Exhibit 10.6 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

10.7*    

Honeywell International Inc. Severance Plan for Senior Executives, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 2003, and amended by Exhibit 10.7 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004)   

10.8*    

Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan for Selected Employees of Honeywell International Inc., and its Affiliates, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
      Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and by Exhibit 10.8 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)   

109  

110  

111  

Exhibit No.    

Description    

10.36    

Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 14, 2007 by and among Honeywell International Inc., the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders
      parties thereto, Citicorp USA, Inc., as administrative agent, Citibank International PLC, as swing line agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A.,
      Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as documentation agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
      as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s 8-K filed May 18, 2007)   

10.37    

Purchase and Sale Agreement between Catalysts, Adsorbents and Process Systems, Inc., and Honeywell Specialty Materials, LLC, dated September 30, 2005 (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 10.23 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005)   

10.38    

Stock Purchase Agreement by and between Honeywell International Inc. and M F Worldwide Corp. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed November 1,
      2005)   

11    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

12    

Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed herewith)   

16    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

18    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

21    

Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith)   

22    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

23    

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (filed herewith)   

24    

Powers of Attorney (filed herewith)   

31.1    

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)   

31.2    

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)   

32.1    

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)   

32.2    

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)   

99    

Omitted (Inapplicable)   

The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk (*) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.  
  112  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC     SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS     Three Years Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions)   
   Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:   

(1)   

Represents uncollectible accounts written off, less recoveries, translation adjustments and reserves acquired. 

Deferred Tax Assets Valuation Allowance   

Balance December 31, 2004   

$   

338   

Additions charged to income tax expense   

46   

Reductions credited to income tax expense   

(126   
       
       )   

Additions charged to goodwill, due to acquisitions   

219   

Balance December 31, 2005   

477   

Additions charged to income tax expense   

40   

Reductions credited to income tax expense   

(3   
       
       )   

Reductions charged to goodwill, due to acquisitions   

(24   
       
       )   

Additions charged to other comprehensive income (loss), upon adoption of SFAS No. 158   

28   

Reductions charged to deferred tax asset, due to expired NOL   

(2   
       
       )   

Balance December 31, 2006   

516   

Additions charged to income tax expense   

56   

Reductions credited to income tax expense   

(114   
       
       )   

Additions charged to equity   

28   

Reductions credited to deferred tax assets, due to expired NOL   

(19   
       
       )   

Additions charged to deferred tax assets, due to capital loss carryforwards   

51   

Reductions credited to goodwill   

(28   
       
       )   

Balance December 31, 2007   

$   

490   

113  

<EX-10.16>
 3
 c51271_ex10-16.htm

Exhibit 10.16    
 
   AMENDMENT    
  TO THE    
  HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.    
  SEVERANCE PLAN FOR CORPORATE STAFF EMPLOYEES    
  (INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION FOLLOWING A CHANGE IN CONTROL)    
  EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 6, 1988    
  AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF OCTOBER 24, 2000     
 
                      The Honeywell International Inc. Severance Plan for Corporate Staff Employees (Involuntary Termination Following A Change In Control), effective February 6, 1988, amended and restated as of October 24, 2000, is hereby
amended effective January 1, 2008, by adding the following new sentence to the end of Section 3.1:    
 
          Notwithstanding
      any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no individual who first
      satisfies the definition of  Corporate Staff Employee  after
      December 31, 2007 shall participate in the Plan.     

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.28>
 4
 c51271_ex10-28.htm

Exhibit
10.28   

2006 Stock Incentive Plan   

   of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates   

Restricted Unit Agreement   

RESTRICTED UNIT AGREEMENT made in Morris Township, New Jersey, as of the [DAY]       day of [MONTH, YEAR] (the  Date of Grant ), between Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ) and [EMPLOYEE NAME] (the  Employee ).  

1.     
         
               Grant of Award.     The Company has granted you [NUMBER] Restricted Units, subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (the  Plan ).  The Company will hold the Restricted Units in a bookkeeping account on your behalf until they become payable or are forfeited or cancelled.       

2.     
         
              [FOLLOWING INCLUDED AT COMMITTEE S DISCRETION:    Dividend Equivalents.     Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, you will earn Dividend Equivalents in an amount equal to the value of any cash or stock dividends paid by the Company upon one Share of Common Stock for each unvested Restricted Unit or Additional Restricted Unit (as defined below) credited to your bookkeeping account on a dividend record date. In the case of cash dividends, the Company shall credit to your bookkeeping account, on each dividend payment date, an additional number of Restricted Units ( Additional Restricted Units ) equal to (a) divided by (b), where (a) equals the total number of unvested Restricted Units and Additional Restricted Units, if any, subject to this
Agreement on such date multiplied by the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per Share of Common Stock on such date, and (b) equals the Fair Market Value of a Share on such date.  If a dividend is paid to holders of Common Stock in Shares, the Company shall credit to you, on each dividend payment date, Additional Restricted Units equal to the total number of unvested Restricted Units subject to this Agreement on such date multiplied by the Share dividend paid per Share of Common Stock on such date.  Additional Restricted Units are subject to the same restrictions, including but not limited to vesting (except with respect to certain Additional Restricted Units representing fractional Units), transferability and payment restrictions that apply to the Restricted Units to which they relate.]         

3.     
         
               Payment Amount.     Each Restricted Unit [and Additional Restricted Unit] represents one (1) Share of Common Stock.         

4.     
         
               Vesting.     Except in the event of your Full Retirement, death, Disability, or a Change in Control, or as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the restrictions on the Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will lapse incrementally as follows:  [VESTING PROVISIONS CONSISTENT WITH THE PLAN].        

[Fractional
            Units will accumulate until all such Units equal at least 1.0. The
            fractional Units equal to 1.0 will vest on the vesting date described
      above that is coincident with   

1/8  

or next
          following the date the fractional Units equal at least 1.0 and will
          be paid in accordance with Section 5, and the fractional Units in excess
          of 1.0 will continue to accumulate unvested. Any fractional Units remaining
      on the last vesting date will vest and be paid in cash.]  

Your
            vested right will be calculated on the earliest of (a) the relevant
            anniversary of the Date of Grant, (b) upon your Termination of Employment,
            other than by reason of your Full Retirement, death, Disability,
            or (c) the occurrence of a Change in Control. No partial credit will
      be given for partial years of employment.  

5.     
         
               Form and Timing of Payment.     Vested Restricted Units will be redeemed solely for Shares.  [FOLLOWING INCLUDED AT COMMITTEE S DISCRETION: Except as otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ), in its sole discretion, vested Additional Restricted Units will be redeemed solely for Shares.]  [Subject to a deferral election made pursuant to Section 6,] payment on vested Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will be made as soon as practicable following the lapse of the restrictions on the Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] but in no event later than two and one-half (2-1/2) months following the end of the calendar year in which the restrictions lapse. [FOLLOWING INCLUDED AT COMMITTEE S DISCRETION: You cannot
defer payment of the Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units]].       

6.     
         
              [FOLLOWING INCLUDED AT COMMITTEE S DISCRETION:    Deferral of Payment.     If you would like to defer payment on the Restricted Units [and related Additional Restricted Units], you may make a request to the Committee in writing in the form and at the time designated by the Committee.  You must submit a suggested payment schedule with the request for deferral.  The Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine whether to permit deferral of payment in the manner requested.  If the Committee does not accept your proposed payment schedule, then payment will be made as provided in Section 5.  [All Additional Restricted Units will be subject to the same deferral restrictions as the Restricted Units to which they relate.]  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, dividend
equivalents credited on deferred Restricted Units [and deferred Additional Restricted Units] will be paid in cash as soon as practicable following the date such dividend equivalents are credited but in no event later than 2-1/2 months following the end of the year in which the dividend equivalents vest.]       

7.     
         
               Termination of Employment.     Any Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] that have not vested as of your Termination of Employment, other than by reason of your Full Retirement, death or Disability, or a Change in Control, will immediately be forfeited, and your rights with respect to these Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will end. For purposes of this Agreement, if your employment is terminated under circumstances that entitle you to severance benefits under a severance plan of the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate,  Termination of Employment  refers to the date immediately prior to the date severance benefits become payable under the terms of the severance plan. If your employment is terminated under any other circumstances and you are not entitled
to        

2/8  

severance
          benefits under a severance plan of the Company or an Affiliate,  Termination
          of Employment  refers to the last day you actively perform services
      for the Company and its Affiliates.  

8.     
         
               Retirement, Death or Disability.     If your Termination of Employment occurs because of your death or Disability, any vesting restrictions on Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will lapse, and payment will be made in accordance with Section 5.  If you are deceased, the Company will make a payment to your estate only after the Committee has determined that the payee is the duly appointed executor or administrator of your estate.       

If
            your Termination of Employment occurs solely because of your Full
            Retirement, you will receive a pro-rata payment of unvested Restricted
            Units [and related Additional Restricted Units] equal to the product
            of (a) times (b), minus (c), where (a) equals the total number of
            Restricted Units set forth in Section 1 above [plus the total number
            of Additional Restricted Units] (both vested and unvested) credited
            to you as of your Termination of Employment, (b) equals the ratio
            of your complete years of service as an employee of the Company or
            its Affiliates between the Date of Grant and your Termination of
            Employment, and the number of complete years of service required
            under this Agreement to be fully vested in all Restricted Units [and
            Additional Restricted Units], and (c) equals the number of Restricted
            Units [and Additional Restricted Units] that vested before your Termination
      of Employment.   

Payment
      will be made in accordance with Section 5.  

9.     
         
               Change in Control.     In the event of a Change in Control, any restrictions on Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] that have not lapsed or terminated as of the date of Change in Control will immediately lapse.  No later than 90 days after the date of Change in Control, you will receive for the Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] a single payment in cash equal to the product of the number of outstanding Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] as of the date of the Change in Control (including any Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] that vest pursuant to this Section 9) and a multiplication factor, as set forth in the Plan.       

10.     
         
               Withholdings.     The Company or your local employer shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require you to remit to the Company or to your local employer, prior to any issuance or delivery of Shares on Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units], an amount sufficient to satisfy taxes imposed under the laws of any country, state, province, city or other jurisdiction, including but not limited to income taxes, capital gain taxes, transfer taxes, and social security contributions, and National Insurance Contributions, that are required by law to be withheld as determined by the Company or your local employer.        

11.     
         
               Transfer of Award.     You may not transfer the Restricted Units, [Additional Restricted Units] or any interest in such Units except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  Any other attempt to dispose of your interest will be null and void.       

3/8  

12.     
         
               Forfeiture of Awards.        

(a)     
         
              By accepting the Award, you expressly agree and acknowledge that the forfeiture provisions of subparagraph (b) will apply if, from the Date of Grant of these Restricted Units until the date that is twenty-four (24) months after your Termination of Employment, for any reason, you enter into an employment or consultation agreement or arrangement (including any arrangement for service as an agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person engaged in a business in which the Company or any Affiliate is engaged if the business is competitive (in the sole judgment of the Committee) with the Company or an Affiliate and the Committee has not approved the agreement or arrangement in writing.       

(b)     
         
              If the Committee determines, in its sole judgment, that you have engaged in an act that violates subparagraph (a) prior to the 24-month anniversary of your Termination of Employment, your outstanding Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will immediately be rescinded, and you will forfeit any rights you have with respect to these Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] as of the date of the Committee s determination.  In addition, you hereby agree and promise immediately to deliver to the Company, Shares equal in value to the amount of any Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] you received payment for during the period beginning six (6) months prior to your Termination of Employment and ending on the date of the Committee s determination.        

13.     
         
               Restrictions on Payment of Shares.     Payment of Shares for your Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] is subject to the conditions that, to the extent required at the time of exercise, (a) the Shares underlying the Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will be duly listed, upon official notice of redemption, upon the New York Stock Exchange, and (b) a Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the Shares will be effective.  The Company will not be required to deliver any Common Stock until all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with and all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the Shares have been approved by counsel for the Company.       

14.     
         
               Adjustments.    Any adjustments to the Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] will be governed by Section 5.3 of the Plan.        

15.     
         
               Disposition of Securities.     By accepting the Award, you acknowledge that you have read and understand the Company s policy, and are aware of and understand your obligations under applicable securities laws in respect of trading in the Company s securities.  The Company will have the right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit you realize on the disposition of Shares received for Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units] to the extent that the Company has a right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.       

4/8  

16.     
         
               Plan Terms Govern.     The vesting and redemption of Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units], the disposition of any Shares received for Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units], the treatment of gain on the disposition of these Shares, [and the treatment of Dividend Equivalents] are subject to the provisions of the Plan and any rules that the Committee may prescribe.  The Plan document, as may be amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Agreement.  Capitalized terms used in this Agreement have the meaning set forth in the Plan, unless otherwise stated in this Agreement.  In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and the terms of this Agreement, the Plan will control. By accepting the Award, you acknowledge that the Plan and the Plan prospectus, as in effect on
the date of this Agreement, have been made available to you for your review.       

(a)     
         
              By entering into this Agreement, and as a condition of the grant of the Restricted Units, you expressly consent to the collection, use, and transfer of personal data as described in this Section to the full extent permitted by and in full compliance with applicable law.         

(b)     
         
              You understand that your local employer holds, by means of an automated data file, certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all restricted units or other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested, or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ( Data ).         

(c)     
         
              You further understand that part or all of your Data may be also held by the Company or its Affiliates, pursuant to a transfer made in the past with your consent, in respect of any previous grant of restricted units or awards, which was made for the same purposes of managing and administering of previous award/incentive plans, or for other purposes.         

(d)     
         
              You further understand that your local employer will transfer Data to the Company or its Affiliates among themselves as necessary for the purposes of implementation, administration, and management of the your participation in the Plan, and that the Company or its Affiliates may transfer data among themselves, and/or each, in turn, further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan ( Data Recipients ).         

(e)     
         
              You understand that the Company or its Affiliates, as well as the Data Recipients, are or may be located in your country of residence or elsewhere, such as the United States.  You authorize the Company or its Affiliates, as well as the Data Recipients, to receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan, including any transfer of such Data, as may be required        

5/8  

for
            the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares
            on your behalf, to a broker or third party with whom the Shares may
      be deposited.   

(f)     
         
              You understand that you may show your opposition to the processing and transfer of your Data, and, may at any time, review the Data, request that any necessary amendments be made to it, or withdraw your consent herein in writing by contacting the Company.  You further understand that withdrawing consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.       

18.     
         
               Discretionary Nature and Acceptance of Award   .  By accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and acknowledge that:       

(a)     
         
              The Company (and not your local employer) is granting your Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units]. Furthermore, this Agreement is not derived from any preexisting labor relationship between you and the Company, but rather from a mercantile relationship.        

(b)     
         
              The Company may administer the Plan from outside your country of residence and United States law will govern all Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] granted under the Plan.         

(c)     
         
              Benefits and rights provided under the Plan are wholly discretionary and, although provided by the Company, do not constitute regular or periodic payments.        

(d)     
         
              The benefits and rights provided under the Plan are not to be considered part of your salary or compensation under your employment with your local employer for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy or other end of service payments, vacation, bonuses, long-term service awards, indemnification, pension or retirement benefits, or any other payments, benefits or rights of any kind.  You waive any and all rights to compensation or damages as a result of the termination of employment with your local employer for any reason whatsoever insofar as those rights result, or may result, from the loss or diminution in value of such rights under the Plan or your ceasing to have any rights under, or ceasing to be entitled to any rights under, the Plan as a result of such termination.       

(e)     
         
              The grant of Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] hereunder, and any future grant of Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units] under the Plan, is entirely voluntary, and at the complete discretion of the Company. Neither the grant of the Restricted Units, [the Additional Restricted Units] nor any future grant by the Company will be deemed to create any obligation to make any future grants, whether or not such a reservation is explicitly stated at the time of such a grant. The Company has the right, at any time and/or on an annual basis, to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no such amendment, suspension, or termination will adversely affect your rights hereunder.        

(f)     
         
              The Plan will not be deemed to constitute, and will not be construed by you to constitute, part of the terms and conditions of employment. Neither the Company        

6/8  

nor
            your local employer will incur any liability of any kind to you as
            a result of any change or amendment, or any cancellation, of the
      Plan at any time.  

(g)     
         
              Participation in the Plan will not be deemed to constitute, and will not be deemed by you to constitute, an employment or labor relationship of any kind with the Company.       

19.     
         
               Limitations.     Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan gives you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its Affiliates or to interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time.  Payment of your Restricted Units [and Additional Restricted Units] is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or other funding medium, and you do not have any interest in any fund or specific asset of the Company by reason of this Award or the account established on your behalf.  You have no rights as a shareowner of the Company pursuant to the Restricted Units [or Additional Restricted Units] until Shares are actually delivered to you.       

20.     
         
               Incorporation of Other Agreements.     This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding the Restricted Units.  This Agreement supersedes any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the Restricted Units [and the Additional Restricted Units].       

21.     
         
               Severability.     The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of the Agreement, which will remain in full force and effect.  Moreover, if any provision is found to be excessively broad in duration, scope or covered activity, the provision will be construed so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with applicable law.       

22.     
         
               Agreement Changes.     The Company reserves the right to change the terms of this Agreement and the Plan without your consent to the extent necessary or desirable to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A, the Treasury regulations and other guidance thereunder.      

IN
            WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be duly
            executed by the facsimile signature of its Chairman of the Board
            and Chief Executive Officer as of the day and year first above written.
            By consenting to this Agreement, you agree to the following: (i)
            you have carefully read, fully understand and agree to all of the
            terms and conditions described in this Agreement, the Plan and the
            Plan s prospectus; and (ii) you understand and agree that this
            Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between
            you and the Company regarding the Award, and that any prior agreements,
            commitments or negotiations concerning the Restricted Units [and
            the Additional Restricted Units] are replaced and superseded. You
            must accept this Award by signing the Agreement below and, by signing
            this Agreement, you will be deemed to consent to the application
            of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan.
            If you do not wish to accept this Award, you must contact Honeywell
      International Inc., Executive   

7/8  

Compensation/AB-1D, 101 Columbia Road, Morristown, NJ 07962 in writing within thirty (30) days of the date of this Agreement.  

Honeywell
    International Inc.  

/s/ David M. Cote  

By:     
      David M. Cote 
    Chairman of the Board and 
    Chief Executive Officer  

I Accept   

Signature      
           Date 

8/8  

</EX-10.28>

<EX-12>
 5
 c51271_ex12.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex12.htm 

EXHIBIT 12   
   HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

(a)   

Denotes the equivalent of an appropriate portion of rentals representative of the interest factor on all rentals other than for capitalized leases. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 c51271_ex21.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex21.htm 

EXHIBIT 21   
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   

Name    

Country or State of Incorporation    

Percent Ownership    

ADI-Gardiner Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%       

AlliedSignal Aerospace Service Corporation   

Delaware   

100%   

AlliedSignal Holdings B.V.   

Netherlands   

100%   

Alsip Packaging Inc.   

Delaware   

100%   

Grimes Aerospace Company   

Delaware   

100%   

Honeywell (China) Co., Ltd.   

China   

100%   

Honeywell (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   

Singapore   

100%   

Honeywell Aerospace B.V.   

Netherlands   

100%   

Honeywell Aerospace GmbH   

Germany   

100%   

Honeywell Aerospace UK   

United Kingdom   

100%   

Honeywell Aerospatiale Inc.   

Canada   

100%   

Honeywell Analytics (Switzerland) GmbH   

Switzerland   

100%   

Honeywell ASCa Inc.   

Canada   

100%   

Honeywell Asia Pacific Inc.   

Delaware   

100%   

Honeywell Automation India Limited   

India   

81.24%   

Honeywell Avionics Systems Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

Honeywell B.V.   

Netherlands   

100%   

Honeywell Bermuda LP   

Bermuda   

100%   

Honeywell Co., Ltd. (Korea)   

Korea   

100%   

Honeywell Control Systems Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

Honeywell Electronic Materials Inc.   

Washington   

100%   

Honeywell Europe N.V.   

Belgium   

100%   

Honeywell Finance LP   

Delaware   

100%   

Honeywell Garrett Italia S.r.l.   

Italy   

100%   

Honeywell Garrett S.A.   

France   

100%   

Honeywell Japan Inc.   

Japan   

100%   

Honeywell Korea Ltd.   

Korea   

100%   

Honeywell Limited Honeywell Limitee   

Canada   

100%   

Honeywell Luxembourg Finance Sarl   

Luxembourg   

100%   

Honeywell Luxembourg Holding S.a.r.l.   

Luxembourg   

100%   

Honeywell Resins   Chemicals L.L.C.   

Delaware   

100%   

Honeywell Specialty Chemicals Seelze GmbH   

Germany   

100%   

Honeywell spol s.r.l. (Czech Republic)   

Czech Republic   

100%   

Honeywell Technical Services S.r.l.   

Italy   

100%   

Honeywell Technologies Sarl   

Switzerland   

100%   

Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc.   

Delaware   

100%   

Honeywell Turbocharging Systems Japan Inc.   

Japan   

100%   

Honeywell UK Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

Novar Controls Corporation   

Delaware   

100%   

Novar ED S Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

Novar Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals S.A. (Parent)   

Luxembourg   

100%   

Prestone Products Corporation   

Delaware   

100%   

Trend Control Systems Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

UOP Limited   

United Kingdom   

100%   

The names of Honeywell s other consolidated subsidiaries, which are primarily totally-held by Honeywell, are not listed because all such subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single
  subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 c51271_ex23.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex23.htm 

EXHIBIT 23   
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 033-55425, 333-22355, 333-49455, 333-68847, 333-74075, 333-34760, 333-86874, 333-101455 and
  333-141013), Form S-8 (No. 033-09896, 033-51455, 033-55410, 033-58347, 333-57515, 333-57517, 333-57519, 333-83511, 333-49280, 333-57868, 333-105065, 333-108461, 333-136083, 333-136086,
  333-146932 and 333-148995) and on Form S-4 (No. 333-82049) of Honeywell International Inc. of our report dated February 14, 2008 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and
  the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.  
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Florham Park, New Jersey February 14, 2008  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 c51271_ex24.htm

Exhibit 24  
     POWER OF ATTORNEY     
 
              Each
  of the undersigned, as a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ),
  a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints David M. Cote, Peter M. Kreindler,
  David J. Anderson, Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act
  without the other and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my
  attorney-in-fact and agent for me and in my name, place and stead in any and
all capacities,    
 
              (i)       to sign the Company s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the
year ended December 31, 2007,    
 
              (ii)      to
sign any amendment to the Annual Report referred to in (i) above, and    
 
              (iii)     to
  file the documents described in (i) and (ii) above and all exhibits thereto
and any and all other documents in connection therewith,   
 
   granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform every act and thing requisite, necessary or desirable to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as I
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his or her substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   
 
              This Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same
instrument.   
 
      /s/ Gordon M. Bethune    
       Gordon M. Bethune, Director   
       /s/ Jaime Chico Pardo   
       Jaime Chico Pardo, Director   
      /s/ D. Scott Davis    
       D. Scott Davis, Director   
      /s/ Linnet F. Deily    
       Linnet F. Deily, Director   
      /s/ Clive R. Hollick    
       Clive R. Hollick, Director   
        /s/
        James J. Howard    
           James J. Howard, Director   

/s/ Ivan G. Seidenberg   
       Ivan G. Seidenberg, Director   
       /s/ Bradley T. Sheares    
       Bradley T. Sheares, Director   
       /s/ Eric K. Shinseki    
       Eric K. Shinseki, Director   
      /s/ John R. Stafford    
       John R. Stafford, Director   
      /s/ Michael W. Wright    
       Michael W. Wright, Director   

Dated: December 7, 2007  

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
 
              Each
  of the undersigned, as a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ),
  a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints David M. Cote, Peter M. Kreindler,
  David J. Anderson, Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act
  without the other and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my
  attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the Company
  one or more registration statements, and to file the same together with all
  exhibits thereto, under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment
  thereto or to any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed by the
Company:    
 
                     (a)   on
  Form S-8 (or other appropriate form) for the registration of shares of the
  Company's Common Stock (or participations where appropriate) to be offered
  under the savings, stock or other benefit plans of the Company, its affiliates
  or any predecessor thereof, including the Honeywell Savings and Ownership Plan,
  the Honeywell Supplemental Savings Plan, the 1993 Stock Plan for Employees
  of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the Stock Plan for Non-Employee
  Directors of Honeywell International Inc., the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
  Directors of Honeywell International Inc., the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan of
  Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan
  of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2007 Honeywell Global
  Employee Stock Plan (including any and all sub-plans), and any plan which is
  a successor to such plans or is a validly authorized plan pursuant to which
securities of the Company are issued to employees, and   
 
                     (b)   on
  Form S-3 (or other appropriate form) for the registration of shares of the
  Company's Common Stock to be offered under the Dividend Reinvestment and Share
Purchase Plan of the Company and any plan which is a successor to such plan.    
 
              I hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I might do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done.    
 
              I hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to sign the above-described documents.    

This Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.   
 
      /s/ Gordon M. Bethune    
       Gordon M. Bethune, Director   
       /s/ Jaime Chico Pardo   
       Jaime Chico Pardo, Director   
      /s/ D. Scott Davis    
       D. Scott Davis, Director   
        /s/
        Linnet F. Deily    
           Linnet F. Deily, Director   
       /s/ Clive R. Hollick    
       Clive R. Hollick, Director   
       /s/ James J. Howard    
       James J. Howard, Director   

/s/ Ivan G. Seidenberg   
       Ivan G. Seidenberg, Director   
      /s/ Bradley T. Sheares    
       Bradley T. Sheares, Director   
      /s/ Eric K. Shinseki    
       Eric K. Shinseki, Director   
       /s/ John R. Stafford    
       John R. Stafford, Director   
       /s/ Michael W. Wright    
       Michael W. Wright, Director   

Dated: December 7, 2007  

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
 
              Each
  of the undersigned, as a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ),
  a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints David M. Cote, Peter M. Kreindler,
  David J. Anderson, Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act
  without the other and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my
  attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the Company
  one or more registration statements, and to file the same together with all
  exhibits thereto, under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment
  thereto or to any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed by the
Company on Form S-3 (or other appropriate form) for the registration of:    
 
              (i)       debt
securities of the Company, with such terms as may be from time to time specified
in such registration statement or any amendment or post-effective amendment;    
 
              (ii)      shares of the Company s common stock, par value,  1.00
per share;    
 
              (iii)     shares of the Company s
preferred stock, without par value; and    
 
              (iv)     such
  other securities of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures or affiliates
  or another person or entity, as may be specified in any such registration statement
  or amendment, all in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules
and regulations thereunder;    
 
              I hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I might do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done.    
 
              I hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to the extent that they confer authority to sign the above-described documents.    

This Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same
instrument.   
 
      /s/ Gordon M. Bethune    
       Gordon M. Bethune, Director   
       /s/ Jaime Chico Pardo   
       Jaime Chico Pardo, Director   
       /s/ D. Scott Davis    
       D. Scott Davis, Director   
       /s/ Linnet F. Deily    
       Linnet F. Deily, Director   
       /s/ Clive R. Hollick    
       Clive R. Hollick, Director   
       /s/ James J. Howard    
       James J. Howard, Director   

/s/ Ivan G. Seidenberg   
       Ivan G. Seidenberg, Director   
       /s/ Bradley T. Sheares    
       Bradley T. Sheares, Director   
       /s/ Eric K. Shinseki    
       Eric K. Shinseki, Director   
       /s/ John R. Stafford    
       John R. Stafford, Director   
       /s/ Michael W. Wright    
       Michael W. Wright, Director   

Dated: December 7, 2007  

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
 
              I,
  David M. Cote, a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ),
  a Delaware corporation, hereby appoint David J. Anderson, Peter M. Kreindler,
  Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act without the other
  and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact to
  sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the Company one or more registration
  statements, and to file the same together with all exhibits thereto, under
  the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment thereto or to any registration
  statement heretofore or hereafter filed by the Company on Form S-3 (or other
appropriate form) for the registration of:    
 
              (i)       debt
  securities of the Company, with such terms as may be from time to time specified
in such registration statement or any amendment or post-effective amendment;    
 
              (ii)      shares of the Company s common stock, par value,  1.00
per share;    
 
              (iii)     shares of the Company s
preferred stock, without par value; and    
 
              (iv)     such
  other securities of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures or affiliates
  or another person or entity, as may be specified in any such registration statement
  or amendment, all in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules
and regulations thereunder;    
 
              I hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I might do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done.    
 
              I hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to the extent that they confer authority to sign the above-described documents.    

/s/ David M. Cote   
          David M. Cote    

Dated: December 7, 2007  

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
 
              I,
  David M. Cote, a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ),
  a Delaware corporation, hereby appoint David J. Anderson, Peter M. Kreindler,
  Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act without the other
  and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact and
agent for me and in my name, place and stead in any and all capacities,    
 
              (i)       to sign the Company s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the
year ended December 31, 2007,    
 
              (ii)      to
sign any amendment to the Annual Report referred to in (i) above, and    
 
              (iii)     to
  file the documents described in (i) and (ii) above and all exhibits thereto
and any and all other documents in connection therewith,   
 
   granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform every act and thing requisite, necessary or desirable to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as I
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his or her substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

/s/ David M. Cote   
          David M. Cote    

Dated: December 7, 2007  

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
 
              I,
  David M. Cote, a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ),
  a Delaware corporation, hereby appoint David J. Anderson, Peter M. Kreindler,
  Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act without the other
  and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact to
  sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the Company one or more registration
  statements, and to file the same together with all exhibits thereto, under
  the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment thereto or to any registration
statement heretofore or hereafter filed by the Company:    
 
                     (a)   on
  Form S-8 (or other appropriate form) for the registration of shares of the
  Company's Common Stock (or participations where appropriate) to be offered
  under the savings, stock or other benefit plans of the Company, its affiliates
  or any predecessor thereof, including the Honeywell Savings and Ownership Plan,
  the Honeywell Supplemental Savings Plan, the 1993 Stock Plan for Employees
  of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the Stock Plan for Non-Employee
  Directors of Honeywell International Inc., the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
  Directors of Honeywell International Inc., the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan of
  Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan
  of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2007 Honeywell Global
  Employee Stock Plan (including any and all sub-plans), and any plan which is
  a successor to such plans or is a validly authorized plan pursuant to which
securities of the Company are issued to employees, and    
 
                     (b)   on
  Form S-3 (or other appropriate form) for the registration of shares of the
  Company's Common Stock to be offered under the Dividend Reinvestment and Share
Purchase Plan of the Company and any plan which is a successor to such plan.    
 
              I hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I might do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done.    
 
              I hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to sign the above-described documents.    

/s/ David M. Cote   
          David M. Cote    

Dated: December 7, 2007  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 c51271_ex31-1.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex31-1.htm 

EXHIBIT 31.1   
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
  I, David M. Cote, Chief Executive Officer, certify that:  
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Honeywell International Inc.;  
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
  under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
  flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
  internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
  (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
  registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  
  (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
  (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
  procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
  in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
  registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
  (a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
  record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
  (b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management orother employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internalcontrol over financial reporting.  

Date: February 15, 2008   

By:   

/s/ David M. Cote        

David M. Cote Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 c51271_ex31-2.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex31-2.htm 

EXHIBIT 31.2   
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
  I, David J. Anderson, Chief Financial Officer, certify that:  
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Honeywell International Inc.;  
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
  under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
  flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
  internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
  (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
  registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  
  (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
  (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
  procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
  in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
  5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee
  of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
  (a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to
  record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
  (b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 15, 2008   

By:   

/s/ David J. Anderson        

David J. Anderson Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 c51271_ex32-1.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex32-1.htm 

EXHIBIT 32.1   
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
  In connection with the Annual Report of Honeywell International Inc. (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
  the date hereof (the Report), I, David M. Cote, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
  that:  
  (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

By:   

/s/ David M. Cote        

David M. Cote Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 15, 2008   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 c51271_ex32-2.htm

3B2 EDGAR HTML -- c51271_ex32-2.htm 

EXHIBIT 32.2   
   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
  In connection with the Annual Report of Honeywell International Inc. (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
  the date hereof (the Report), I, David J. Anderson, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
  2002, that:  
  (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

By:   

/s/ David J. Anderson        

David J. Anderson Chief Financial Officer   

Date: February 15, 2008   

</EX-32.2>

