<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120217_10-K_edgar_data_773840_0000930413-12-000976_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>25378966</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>415809</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6538197</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5336475</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8224618</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3973754</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>114</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000930413-12-000976.hdr.sgml : 20120217
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120217135844
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000930413-12-000976
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120217
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120217

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000773840
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES [3714]
		IRS NUMBER:				222640650
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08974
		FILM NUMBER:		12622057

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 COLUMBIA RD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 4000
		CITY:			MORRISTOWN
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07962
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9734552000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 COLUMBIA RD P O BOX 4000
		STREET 2:		101 COLUMBIA RD P O BOX 4000
		CITY:			MORRISTOWN
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07962

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALLIEDSIGNAL INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940929

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000930413-12-000976.txt : 20120217

10-K
 1
 c68029_10k.htm

UNITED
STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  

Form 10-K   

  x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
13 OR 15(d)  
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
  For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2011 
   OR 
  o   TRANSITION REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
  For the transition period from        to  
Commission file number  1-8974    

   Honeywell International Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware  

22-2640650  

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification No.)  

101 Columbia Road  

Morris Township, New Jersey  

07962  

(Address of principal executive offices)  

(Zip Code)  

Registrant s
telephone number, including area code (973) 455-2000   Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of Each Class  

Name of Each Exchange 
 on Which Registered  

Common Stock, par value $1 per
 share*  

New York Stock Exchange  

Chicago Stock Exchange  

9 %
Debentures due  June 1, 2016   

New York Stock Exchange  

* The
common stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange.  

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  

  Indicate by
check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes  x   No   o   

  Indicate by
check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes  o   No   x   

  Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  x   No   o   

  Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes  x   No   o   

  Indicate by
check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  x   

  Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition
of  accelerated filer,   large accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):   

Large accelerated filer  x   

Accelerated filer  o   

Non-accelerated filer  o   

Smaller reporting company  o   

Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act). Yes  o   No   x   

  The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $47.1 billion at June 30, 2011.  

  There were
775,363,731 shares of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 2012.  

   Documents Incorporated by Reference  
  Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners
to be held April 23, 2012.   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Item   

Page   

Part I  

1  

Business   

1  

1A  

Risk
 Factors   

13  

1B  

Unresolved
 Staff Comments   

19  

2  

Properties   

19  

3  

Legal
 Proceedings   

20  

Executive
 Officers of the Registrant   

21  

Part II.  

5  

Market
 for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
 Purchases of Equity Securities   

22  

6  

Selected
 Financial Data   

24  

7  

Management s
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

25  

7A  

Quantitative
 and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

55  

8  

Financial
 Statements and Supplementary Data   

56  

9  

Changes
 in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

113  

9A  

Controls
 and Procedures   

113  

9B  

Other
 Information   

114  

Part III.  

10  

Directors
 and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

114  

11  

Executive
 Compensation   

114  

12  

Security
 Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
 Matters   

114  

13  

Certain
 Relationships and Related Transactions   

117  

14  

Principal
 Accounting Fees and Services   

117  

Part IV.  

15  

Exhibits
 and Financial Statement Schedules   

118  

Signatures   

119  

PART I.   

I  tem
 1.   

Business   

Honeywell
International Inc. (Honeywell) is a diversified technology and manufacturing
company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
control, sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry,
turbochargers, automotive products, specialty chemicals, electronic and
advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and
energy efficient products and solutions for homes, business and transportation.
Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.  

            We
maintain an internet website at http://www.honeywell.com. Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website under
the heading  Investor Relations  (see  SEC Filings   Reports ) immediately
after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by
reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2012
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or
about March 8, 2012, and which will also be available free of charge on our
website.  

            Information
relating to corporate governance at Honeywell, including Honeywell s Code of
Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the
Committees of the Board of Directors are also available, free of charge, on our
website under the heading  Investor Relations  (see  Corporate Governance ), or
by writing to Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962,
c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell s Code of Business
Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees.  

   Major Businesses   

            We
globally manage our business operations through four businesses that are
reported as operating segments: Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions,
Performance Materials and Technologies (formerly Specialty Materials), and
Transportation Systems. Financial information related to our operating segments
is included in Note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.    

            The
major products/services, customers/uses and key competitors of each of our
operating segments follows:  

   Aerospace   

  Our
Aerospace segment is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines,
systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business
and general aviation, military, space and airport operations.  

Product/Service Classes   

Major Products/Services   

Major Customers/Uses   

Key Competitors   

Turbine propulsion engines  

TFE731 turbofan 

   TFE1042 turbofan 

   ATF3 turbofan 

   F125 turbofan 

   F124 turbofan 

   ALF502 turbofan 

   LF507 turbofan 

   CFE738 turbofan 

   HTF 7000 turbofan 

   T53 turboshaft 

   T55 turboshaft 

   CTS800 turboshaft 

   HTS900 turboshaft 

   LT101 turboshaft 

   TPE 331 turboprop 

   AGT1500 turboshaft 

   Repair,
 overhaul and spare 
 parts 

Business,
 regional, and general 
 aviation 

    Commercial helicopters 

    Military vehicles 

    Military helicopters 

    Military trainer 

Rolls Royce/Allison 

    Turbomeca 

    United Technologies 

    Williams 

1  

Product/Service Classes   

Major Products/Services   

Major Customers/Uses   

Key Competitors   

Auxiliary power units 
 (APU S) 

Airborne auxiliary power units 

   Jet fuel starters 

   Secondary power systems 

   Ground power units 

   Repair,
 overhaul and spare 
 parts 

Commercial,
 regional, business 
 and military aircraft 

   Ground power 

United Technologies 

Environmental control 
 systems 

Air
 management systems: 
 Air conditioning 
 Bleed air 
 Cabin pressure control 
 Air purification and treatment 

   Gas Processing 

   Heat Exchangers 

   Repair,
 overhaul and spare 
 parts 

Commercial,
 regional and 
 general aviation aircraft 

   Military aircraft 

   Ground vehicles 

   Spacecraft 

Auxilec 

   Barber Colman 

   Dukes 

   Eaton-Vickers 

   General Electric 

   Goodrich 

   Liebherr 

   Pacific Scientific 

   Parker Hannifin 

   TAT 

   United Technologies 

Electric power systems 

Generators 

   Power distribution   control 

   Power conditioning 

   Repair, overhaul
 and spare 
 parts 

Commercial,
 regional, business 
 and military aircraft 

   Commercial and military  

   helicopters 

   Military vehicles 

General Electric 

   Goodrich 

   Safran 

   United Technologies 

Engine systems 
 accessories 

Electronic
 and hydromechanical 
 fuel controls 

   Engine start systems 

   Electronic engine controls 

   Sensors 

   Valves 

   Electric
 and pneumatic power 
 generation systems 

   Thrust
 reverser actuation, 
 pneumatic and electric 

Commercial,
 regional and 
 general aviation aircraft 

   Military aircraft 

BAE Controls 

   Goodrich 

   Parker Hannifin 

   United Technologies 

Avionics systems 

Flight safety systems: 

   Enhanced
 Ground Proximity 
 Warning Systems (EGPWS) 

   Traffic
 Alert and Collision 
 Avoidance Systems (TCAS) 

   Windshear
 detection systems 

   Flight data
 and cockpit voice 
 recorders 

   Weather radar 

   Communication,
 navigation 
 and surveillance systems: 

   Navigation and guidance 

Commercial,
 business and 
 general aviation aircraft 

   Government aviation 

   Military aircraft 

BAE 

   Boeing/Jeppesen 

   Garmin 

   General Electric 

   Goodrich 

   Kaiser 

   L3 

   Lockheed Martin 

   Northrop Grumman 

   Rockwell Collins 

   Thales 

   Trimble/Terra 

2  

Product/Service Classes   

Major Products/Services   

Major Customers/Uses   

Key Competitors   

systems 

   Global positioning systems 

   Satellite systems 

   Integrated avionics systems 

   Flight management systems 

   Cockpit display systems 

   Data
 management and aircraft 
 performance monitoring 
 systems 

   Aircraft information systems 

   Network file servers 

   Wireless network transceivers 

   Weather information network 

   Navigation
 database 
 information 

   Cabin management systems 

   Vibration
 detection and 
 monitoring 

   Mission management systems 

   Tactical
 data management 
 systems 

   Maintenance
 and health 
 monitoring systems 

Universal Avionics 

   Universal Weather 

Aircraft lighting 

Interior
 and exterior aircraft 
 lighting 

Commercial,
 regional,  
   business, helicopter and   
   military aviation aircraft   
   (operators, OEMs, parts   
   distributors and MRO   
   service providers)  

Hella/Goodrich 

   LSI 

   Luminator 

   Whelen 

Inertial sensor 

Inertial
 sensor systems for 
 guidance, stabilization, 
 navigation and control 

   Gyroscopes,
 accelerometers, 
 inertial measurement units 
 and thermal switches 

   Attitude
 and heading  
 reference systems 

Military
 and commercial 
 vehicles 

   Commercial
 spacecraft and 
 launch vehicles 

   Transportation 

   Powered, guided munitions 

   Munitions 

Astronautics 
 Kearfott 

   BAE 

   GEC 

   General Electric 

   Goodrich 

   L3 Com 

   KVH 

   Northrop Grumman 

   Rockwell 

Control products 

Radar altimeters 

   Pressure products 

   Air data products 

   Thermal switches 

   Magnetic sensors 

Military aircraft 

   Powered, guided munitions, UAVs 

   Commercial applications 

   Commercial, regional, business 

   aircraft 

BAE 

   Goodrich 

   Northrop Grumman 

   Rockwell Collins 

   Rosemount 

3  

Product/Service Classes   

Major Products/Services   

Major Customers/Uses   

Key Competitors   

Space products and subsystems 

Guidance subsystems 

   Control subsystems 

   Processing subsystems 

   Radiation
 hardened electronics 
 and integrated circuits 

   GPS-based
 range safety  
 systems 

   Gyroscopes 

Commercial
 and military 
 spacecraft 

   DoD 

   FAA 

   NASA 

BAE 

   Ithaco 

   L3 

   Northrop Grumman 

   Raytheon 

Management and technical 
 services 

Maintenance/operation
 and 
 provision of space systems, 
 services and facilities 

   Systems
 engineering and 
 integration 

   Information technology services 

   Logistics and sustainment 

U.S. government space (NASA) 

   DoD
 (logistics and information 
 services) 

   FAA 

   DoE 

   Local governments 

   Commercial
 space ground 
 segment systems and 
 services 

Bechtel Boeing 

   Computer Sciences 

   Dyncorp 

   Exelis 

   Lockheed Martin 

   Raytheon 

   SAIC 

   The
 Washington 
 Group 

   United
 Space 
 Alliance 

Landing systems 

Wheels and brakes 

   Wheel and
 brake repair and 
 overhaul services 

Commercial airline, regional, 

   business and military aircraft 

   USAF, DoD,
 DoE 
 Boeing, Airbus, Lockheed 
 Martin 

Goodrich 

   Meggitt 

   Messier-Bugatti 

4  

Automation and Control Solutions  

Our Automation and Control Solutions segment is a leading global
 provider of environmental and combustion controls, sensing controls, security
 and life safety products and services, scanning and mobility devices and
 process automation and building solutions and services for homes, buildings
 and industrial facilities. 

Product/Service Classes  

Major Products/Services  

Major Customers/Uses  

Key Competitors  

Environmental and  
  combustion controls; 
 sensing controls 

Heating, ventilating and air 
 conditioning controls and 
 components for homes and 
 buildings  

   Indoor air quality products 
 including zoning, air cleaners, 
 humidification, heat and  
 energy recovery ventilators 

   Controls plus integrated 
 electronic systems for 
 burners, boilers and 
 furnaces 

   Consumer household products 
 including humidifiers and 
 thermostats 

   Electrical devices and
 switches  

   Water controls  

   Sensors, measurement,
 control 
 and industrial components 

   Energy demand/response 
 management products and 
 services 

Original equipment 
 manufacturers (OEMs) 

   Distributors  

   Contractors  

   Retailers  

   System integrators 

   Commercial customers and 
 homeowners served by 
 the distributor, wholesaler, 
 contractor, retail and utility 
 channels 

   Package and materials handling 
 operations 

   Appliance manufacturers 

   Transportation companies 

   Aviation companies 

   Food and beverage processors 

   Medical equipment 

   Heat treat processors 

   Computer and business 
 equipment manufacturers 

Bosch 

   Cherry 

   Danfoss 

   Eaton 

   Emerson 

   Endress   Hauser 

   Freescale  
 Semiconductor 

   GE 

   Holmes 

   Invensys 

   Johnson Controls 

   Omron 

   Schneider 

   Siemens 

   United Technologies 

   Yamatake 

   Measurement 
 Specialties 

Security
 and life safety  
  products and services 

Security products and
 systems 

   Fire products and systems 

   Access controls and closed 
 circuit television 

   Home health monitoring and  
 nurse call systems 

   Gas detection products and 
 systems 

   Emergency lighting 

   Distribution 

   Personal protection
 equipment 

OEMs 

   Retailers 

   Distributors 

   Commercial customers and 
 homeowners served by the 
 the distributor, wholesaler, 
 contractor, retail and utility 
 channels 

   Health care organizations 

   Security monitoring service 
 providers 

   Industrial, fire service,
 utility 
 distributors and U.S. 
 Government 

Bosch 

   Draeger 

   GE 

   Hubbell Inc 

   Mine Safety 
 Appliances 

   Pelco 

   Phillips 

   Riken Keiki 

   Siemens 

   Tyco 

   United Technologies 

   3M 

Scanning and mobility 

Hand held and hands free  
 image and laser based bar 
 code scanners 

   Scan engines 

   Mobile and wireless
 computers 

OEMs 

   Retailers 

   Distributors 

   Commercial customers served 
 by the transportation and 
 and logistics, manufacturing, 
 healthcare and retail 

Datalogic 

   Intermec 
 Technologies 

   Iridium Vars 

   Motorola Solutions 

   Psion  

   Skywave 

5  

Product/Service Classes  

Major Products/Services  

Major Customers/Uses  

Key Competitors  

Satellite tracking hardware,
  
 airtime services and 
 applications 

   Search   Rescue ground 
 stations and system  
 software 

   LXE Hand Held and Vehicle 
 Mounts 

channels 

   Security, logistics,
 maritime 
 customers for: 
 the tracking of vehicles,  
 containers, ships, and  
 personnel in remote 
 environments 

   National organizations that 
 monitor distress signals 
 from aircraft, ships and 
 individuals, typically Military 
 branches and Coast Guards 

   Warehousing and Ports 

Tsi 

Process automation  
  products and solutions 

Advanced control software
 and 
 industrial automation systems 
 for control and monitoring of 
 continuous, batch and hybrid 
 operations 

   Production management 
 software 

   Communications systems for 
 Industrial Control equipment  
 and systems 

   Consulting, networking 
 engineering and installation 

   Terminal automation
 solutions 

   Process control
 instrumentation 

   Field instrumentation 

   Analytical instrumentation 

   Recorders and controllers 

   Critical environment control 
 solutions and services 

   Aftermarket maintenance, 
 repair and upgrade 

   Gas control, measurement 
 and analyzing equipment 

Refining and petrochemical 
 companies 

   Chemical manufacturers 

   Oil and gas producers 

   Food and beverage processors 

   Pharmaceutical companies 

   Utilities 

   Film and coated producers 

   Pulp and paper industry 

   Continuous web producers in 
 the paper, plastics, metals, 
 rubber, non-woverns and 
 printing industries 

   Mining and mineral
 industries 

ABB 

   AspenTech 

   Emerson 

   Invensys 

   Siemens 

   Yokogawa 

Building solutions and  
  services 

HVAC and building control 
 solutions and services 

   Energy management solutions 
 and services, including 
 demand response and 
 automation 

   Security and asset 
 management solutions and 
 services 

   Enterprise building
 integration 
 solutions 

   Building information services

Airport lighting and
 systems, 
 visual docking guidance 
 systems 

Building managers and owners

Contractors, architects and 
 developers 

   Consulting engineers 

   Security directors 

   Plant managers 

   Utilities 

   Large global corporations 

   Public school systems 

   Universities 

   Local governments 

   Public housing agencies 

   Airports 

Ameresco 

   Chevron 

   GroupMac 

   Ingersoll Rand 

   Invensys 

   Johnson Controls 

   Local contractors 
 and utilities 

   Safegate 

   Schneider 

   Siemens 

   Trane 

   Thorn 

   United Technologies 

6  

Performance
 Materials and Technologies  

Our Performance Materials and Technologies segment is a global leader
 in providing customers with leading technologies and high-performance
 materials, including hydrocarbon processing technologies, catalysts,
 adsorbents, equipment and services, fluorine products, specialty films and
 additives, advanced fibers and composites, intermediates, specialty
 chemicals, electronic materials and chemicals. 

Product/Service Classes  

Major Products/Services  

Major Customers/Uses  

Key Competitors  

Resins   chemicals 

Nylon 6 polymer 

   Caprolactam 

   Ammonium sulfate 

   Phenol 

   Acetone 

   Cyclohexanone 

   MEKO 

Nylon for carpet fibers, 
 Engineered resins and 
 flexible packaging 

   Fertilizer ingredients 

   Resins - Phenolic, Epoxy, 

   Polycarbonate 

   Sovents 

   Chemical intermediates 

   Paints, Coatins, Laquers 

BASF 

   DSM 

   Sinopec 

   UBE 

   INEOS 

   Mitsui 

   Shell 

   Polimeri  

Hydrofluoric acid (HF) 

Anhydrous and aqueous   
  hydrofluoric acid 

Fluorocarbons 

   Metals processing 

   Oil refining 

   Chemical intermediates 

   Semiconductors Photovoltaics 

Mexichem Fluor 

   Solvay 

Fluorocarbons 

Refrigerants, aerosol and 
 insulation foam blowing 
 agents 

   Genesolv   solvents 

   Oxyfume sterilant gases 

   Ennovate 3000 blowing agent 
  
  for refrigeration insulation 

Refrigeration 

   Air conditioning 

   Polyurethane foam 

   Precision cleaning 

   Optical 

   Appliances 

   Hospitals 

   Medical equipment 

   Manufacturers 

Arkema 

   Dupont 

   Solvay 

   Mexichem Fluor 

   Daikin 

   Sinochem 

Nuclear services 

UF6 conversion services 

Nuclear fuel 

   Electric utilities 

Cameco 

   Comurhex 

   Rosatom 

Research and fine 
 chemicals 

Oxime-based fine chemicals 

   Fluoroaromatics 

   High-purity solvents 

Agrichemicals 

   Biotech 

Avecia 

   Degussa 

   DSM 

   E. Merck 

   Thermo Fisher  
 Scientific 

   Lonza 

   Sigma-Aldrich 

Performance
 chemicals 

   Imaging
 chemicals 

   Chemical processing 
 sealants 

HF
 derivatives 

   Fluoroaromatics 

   Catalysts 

   Oxime-silanes 

Diverse by product type 

Atotech 

   BASF 

   DSM 

Advanced fibers   

High modulus polyethylene 

Bullet resistant vests,
 helmets 

DuPont 

7  

Product/Service Classes  

Major Products/Services  

Major Customers/Uses  

Key Competitors  

composites 

fiber and shield composites 

   Aramid shield composites 

and other armor applications

Cut-resistant
 gloves 

   Rope   cordage 

DSM 

   Teijin 

Healthcare and packaging 

Cast nylon film 

   Bi-axially oriented nylon
 film 

   Fluoropolymer film 

Food and pharmaceutical 
 packaging 

American Biaxis 

   CFP 

   Daikin 

   Kolon 

   Unitika 

Specialty additives 

Polyethylene waxes 

   Paraffin waxes and blends 

   PVC lubricant systems 

   Processing aids 

   Luminescent pigments
 Adhesives 

Coatings and inks 

   PVC pipe, siding  
 profiles 

   Plastics 

   Reflective coatings 

   Safety   security
 applications 

BASF 

   Clariant 

   Westlake 

Electronic chemicals  

Ultra high-purity HF 

   Inorganic acids 

   Hi-purity solvents 

Semiconductors 

   Photovoltaics 

KMG 

   BASF 

Semiconductor materials 
 and services 

Interconnect-dielectrics 

   Interconnect-metals 

   Semiconductor packaging 
 materials 

   Advanced polymers 

   Anti-reflective coatings 

   Thermo-couples 

Semiconductors 

   Microelectronics 

   Telecommunications 

   LED 

   Photovoltaics 

BASF 

   Brewer 

   Dow 

   Nikko 

   Praxair 

   Shinko 

   Tosoh 

Catalysts, adsorbents and  
  specialties 

Catalysts 

   Molecular sieves 

   Adsorbents 

   Customer catalyst 
 manufacturing 

Petroleum, refining, 
 petrochemical, gas 
 processing, and 
 manufacturing industries 

Axens 

   BASF 

   WR Grace 

   Haldor 

   Shell/Criterion 

Process technology 
 and equipment 

Technology licensing and 
 engineering design of 
 process units and systems 

   Engineered products 

   Proprietary equipment 

   Training and development of 
 technical personnel 

   Gas processing technology 

Petroleum refining, 
 petrochemical and gas 
 processing 

Axens 

   BP/Amoco 

   Exxon-Mobil 

   Chevron Lummus 
 Global 

   Chicago Bridge    
 Iron 

   Koch Glitsch 

   Linde AG 

   Natco 

   Shaw Group 

   Shell/SGS 

Renewable fuels and 
 chemicals 

Technology licensing of 

   Process, catalysts,
 absorbents, 

   Refining equipment and 
 services for producing 
 renewable-based fuels 
 and chemicals 

Military, refining, fuel
 oil, 

   power production 

Neste Oy 

   Lurgi 

   Kior 

   Syntroleum 

   Dynamotive 

8  

Transportation
 Systems  

Our Transportation Systems segment is one of the leading
 manufacturers of engine boosting systems for passenger cars and commercial
 vehicles, as well as a leading provider of braking products. 

Product/Service Classes  

Major Products/Services  

Major Customers/Uses  

Key Competitors  

Charge-air systems 

Turbochargers for gasoline 
 and diesel engines 

Passenger car, truck and 
 off-highway OEMs 

   Engine manufacturers 

   Aftermarket distributors and 
 dealers 

Borg-Warner 

   Holset 

   IHI 

   MHI 

Thermal systems 

Exhaust gas coolers 

   Charge-air coolers 

   Aluminum radiators 

   Aluminum cooling modules 

Passenger car, truck and 
 off-highway OEMs 

   Engine manufacturers 

   Aftermarket distributors and 
 dealers 

Behr 

   Modine 

   Valeo 

Brake hard parts and other 
 friction materials 

Disc brake pads and shoes 

   Drum brake linings 

   Brake blocks 

   Disc and drum brake 
 components 

   Brake hydraulic components 

   Brake fluid 

   Aircraft brake linings 

   Railway linings 

Automotive and heavy vehicle 
 OEMs, OES, brake  
 manufacturers and 
 aftermarket channels 

   Installers 

   Railway and
 commercial/military 
 aircraft OEMs and brake 
 manufacturers 

Advics 

   Akebono 

   Continental 

   Federal-Mogul 

   ITT Corp 

   JBI 

   Nisshinbo 

   TRW 

Aerospace Sales   

            Our sales to
aerospace customers were 31, 33, and 36 percent of our total sales in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. Our sales to commercial aerospace original
equipment manufacturers were 6, 6 and 7 percent of our total sales in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, our sales to commercial aftermarket
customers of aerospace products and services were 11 percent of our total sales
in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our Aerospace results of operations can be
impacted by various industry and economic conditions. See  Item 1A. Risk
Factors.   

   U.S. Government Sales   

            Sales to the
U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its
various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to
$4,276, $4,354 and $4,288 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which
included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and
subcontractor, of $3,374, $3,500 and $3,455 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Base U.S. defense spending (excludes Overseas Contingent
Operations) was essentially flat in 2011 compared to 2010. Although we expect a
slight decline in our defense and space revenue in 2012 (see Item 7 Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), we
do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any
proposed changes in 2012 federal defense spending due principally to the varied
mix of the government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering
development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs) as
well as our diversified commercial businesses. Our contracts with the U.S.
Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the
government. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors.    

   Backlog   

  9  

Our total
backlog at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $16,160 and $14,616 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $12,018 million of the 2011 backlog
will be filled in 2012. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable
indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders
constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer s option.  

   Competition   

            We are subject
to active competition in substantially all product and service areas.
Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive
conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by
us, and vary by country. Our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such
as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance,
applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity,
service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our
products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other
competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development
efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position
varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant
competitor in each of our major product and service classes. A number of our
products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of
other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and
significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products
compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment
manufacturers. See Item 1A  Risk Factors  for further discussion.  

   International Operations   

            We are
engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development globally.
U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our
operations. U.S. exports comprised 12, 11 and 12 percent of our total sales in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Foreign manufactured products and services,
mainly in Europe and Asia, were 43, 42 and 40 percent of our total sales in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

            Approximately
18 percent of total 2011 sales of Aerospace-related products and services were
exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services
such as aircraft repair and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe,
Asia, Canada, and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and
performance of services comprised approximately 15 percent of total 2011
Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in
Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia.  

            Approximately
3 percent of total 2011 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products and
services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured
products and performance of services accounted for 58 percent of total 2011
Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities
outside the U.S. are in Europe and Asia, with less significant operations in
Canada and Australia.  

            Approximately
34 percent of total 2011 sales of Performance Materials and Technologies products
and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were
principally made to Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and
performance of services comprised 25 percent of total 2011 Performance
Materials and Technologies sales. The principal manufacturing facilities
outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia.  

            Approximately
3 percent of total 2011 sales of Transportation Systems products were exports
of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 85
percent of total 2011 sales of Transportation Systems. The principal
manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant
operations in Asia and Latin America.  

            Financial
information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic
areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . Information regarding the
economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international
operations is included in  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   

   Raw Materials   

            The
principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available.
Although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we
experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and
commodities in 2011. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a material   

  10  

amount of
our raw materials, except related to R240 (a key component in foam blowing
agents), a raw material used in our Performance Materials and Technologies
segment.   

            The costs of
certain key raw materials, including cumene, fluorspar, perchloroethylene,
R240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene in our Performance Materials and
Technologies business, nickel, steel and other metals in our Transportation
Systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace
business, are expected to remain volatile. We will continue to attempt to
offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements,
price increases and hedging activities where feasible. We do not presently
anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse
impacts during 2012. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further discussion.  

   Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and
Distribution Rights   

            Our
segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents,
or any licenses or distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large
number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of
many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those
products and which are of importance to our business. From time to time, new
patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and
rights are acquired from others. We also have distribution rights of varying
terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. In our
judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe
that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses
are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent,
trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related
to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to
our total business. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further discussion.  

            We
have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including
Honeywell, Aclar, Ademco, Bendix, BW, Callidus, Enovate, Esser, Fire-Lite,
Garrett, Genetron, Gent, Howard Leight, Jurid, Matrikon, Maxon, MK, North,
Notifier, Novar, RMG, Silent Knight, Spectra, System Sensor, Trend, Tridium and
UOP.   

   Research and Development   

            Our
research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new
products, technologies and processes, and the development of new uses for
existing products and software applications. The Company s principal research
and development activities are in the U.S., India, Europe and China.  

            Research
and development (R D) expense totaled $1,799, $1,450 and $1,321 million in
2011, 2010 and 2009 , respectively. The increase in R D expense of 24 percent in 2011
compared to 2010 was mainly due to increased expenditures on the development of
new technologies to support existing and new aircraft platforms in our
Aerospace segment, the development of turbocharging systems for new diesel and
gas applications in our Transportation Systems segment and new product
development in our Automation and Control Solutions segment. The increase in
R D expense of 10 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 was mainly due to
additional product design and development costs in Automation and Control
Solutions and increased expenditures on the development of products for new
aircraft platforms. R D as a percentage of sales was 4.9, 4.5 and 4.4
percent in   2011, 2010 and 2009  , respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the
U.S. Government) R D activities amounted to an additional $867, $874 and
$852 million in   2011, 2010 and 2009  , respectively.   

   Environment   

            We
are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government
requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. It is our policy to
comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent
unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial
liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage
is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with
other companies engaged in similar businesses.  

            We
are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of
many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. We
believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are
properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and
personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these
substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It
is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as
improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly
strict   

  11  

environmental laws and standards and
enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling,
manufacture, use or disposal of these substances.  

            Among
other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and
similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been
designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup
costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous
waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency s
Superfund priority list. Although, under some court interpretations of these
laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more
than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain
appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to
bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations
taken as a whole.  

            We do not
believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or
international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material
effect in the foreseeable future on the Company s business or markets that it
serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or financial
position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area.  

            Further
information, including the current status of significant environmental matters
and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental
matters, if any, is included in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  in Note 21 of Notes to
Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, 
and in  Item 1A. Risk Factors.   

   Employees   

            We have
approximately 132,000 employees at December 31, 2011, of which approximately
53,000 were located in the United States.  

  12  

I  tem 1A.   

Risk Factors   

Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking
Statements   

            We
have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and
future results in  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations , including the overview of the Company and
each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other
factors and areas of focus for 2012. These sections and other parts of this
report (including this Item 1A) contain  forward-looking statements  within the
meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

            Forward-looking
statements are those that address activities, events or developments that
management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may
occur in the future. They are based on management s assumptions and assessments
in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry
conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are
not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and
business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our
forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any of our
forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to
risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and
long-term. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of
the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular, the
factors discussed below.  

   Risk Factors   

            Our
business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to
the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our
actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated
future results.  

    Industry and economic conditions may
adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in
turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of
operations.    

            The
operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and
economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment
patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our
manufacturing and shipping costs. The operating results of our Aerospace
segment, which generated 31 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, are
directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global
demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or
cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new
aircraft platforms, the retirement of aircraft, global flying hours, and
business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in
customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier
consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix
of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed
in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment faced by
the commercial airline industry may be influenced by a wide variety of factors
including global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline
consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as
changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues
could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our Aerospace
aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our Automation and
Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 43 percent of our consolidated
revenues in 2011, are impacted by the level of global residential and
commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and
operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant
capacity utilization and expansion, inventory levels in distribution channels,
and global economic growth rates. Performance Materials and Technologies 
operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in
2011, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for
chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our
customers  availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, and
raw material demand and supply volatility. Transportation Systems  operating
results, which generated 11 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, are
impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped
with turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck
emissions and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive
platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket
products. Demand of global automotive and truck manufacturers will continue to
be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including ability of consumers to
obtain financing, ability to reduce operating costs and overall consumer and
business confidence. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw
material prices (as further described below) and non-material inflation.  

    Raw material price fluctuations, the ability
of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic
events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability
to meet commitments to customers, and cause us to incur significant
liabilities.    

  13  

The cost of
raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our
Performance Materials and Technologies (cumene, fluorspar,
perchloroethylene, R240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene), Transportation Systems (nickel,
steel and other metals) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals)
segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased
prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers,
productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our
results of operations.  

            Our
manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of
materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of
major components, and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in
full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards,
and applicable laws and regulations. In addition, many major components,
product equipment items and raw materials are procured or subcontracted on a
single-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies; in some
circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or
equipment. Although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance
process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties and we
believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally
adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases
may have in the future. Our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery
requirements may be constrained by our suppliers  inability to scale production
and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand.
Our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when
required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise
mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. The supply chains for our
businesses could also be disrupted by suppliers  decisions to exit certain
businesses, bankruptcy and by external events such as natural disasters,
extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor
disputes, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (e.g.,
product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions,
product authenticity, climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards,
etc.). Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to
fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in
turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations,
and damage to customer relationships. Transitions to new suppliers may result
in significant costs and delays, including those related to the required
recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and/or
regulatory agencies. In addition, because our businesses cannot always
immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our
manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short
of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating
costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships.  

            Our
facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject
to catastrophic loss due to, among other things, fire, flood, terrorism or
other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were
to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, result in
personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with our customers and
result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities or systems, as
well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. The same risk can also
arise from the failure of critical systems supplied by Honeywell to large
industrial, refining and petrochemical customers.   

    Our future growth is largely dependent upon
our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with
acceptable margins.    

            Our
businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing
technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth
rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify
emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and
maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative
features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and
prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring
products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain
individuals with the requisite expertise.  

            Our
ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect
our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources.
These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in
our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or
products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as
competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not
develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or
products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our
competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our
competitive standing and prospects.  

    Protecting
our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts.     

            We own or
are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent
applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may
expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed   

  14  

upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter
into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on
commercially reasonable terms. In some non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual
property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or
enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of
these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive
advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments,
penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently
disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services.  

    Cybersecurity
incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and
confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of
operations.    

            Global
cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated
and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ
comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats
(including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments,
continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup
and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and
scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption
or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information
(our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations.
The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include
reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of
our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased
cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely
affect our competitiveness and results of operations.  

    An increasing percentage of our sales and
operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic,
political, regulatory and other risks of international operations.    

            Our
international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion
of our operating results. Our strategy calls for increasing sales to and
operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as China,
India, the Middle East and other high growth regions.  

            In
2011, approximately 55 percent of our total sales (including products
manufactured in the U.S. and sold outside the U.S. as well as products
manufactured in international locations) were outside of the U.S. including
approximately 30 percent in Europe and approximately 12 percent in Asia. Risks
related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage
and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import,
export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), changes in regulations
regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private
enterprises, government instability, and our ability to hire and maintain
qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. We
are also subject to U.S. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in
certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be conducted in
these countries. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often
conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying
product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as
well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating
margins.  

            Uncertain
global economic conditions arising from circumstances such as sovereign debt
issues and credit rating downgrades in certain European countries or
speculation regarding changes to the composition or viability of the Euro zone
could result in reduced customer confidence resulting in decreased demand for
our products and services, disruption in payment patterns and higher default
rates, a tightening of credit markets (see risk factor below regarding
volatility of credit markets for further discussion), increased risk regarding
supplier performance, increased counterparty risk with respect to the financial
institutions with which we do business, and exchange rate fluctuations. While
we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard
against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our
operations and commitments, a material disruption to the financial institutions
with whom we transact business could expose Honeywell to financial loss.   

            Sales
and purchases in currencies other than the US dollar expose us to fluctuations
in foreign currencies relative to the US dollar and may adversely affect our
results of operations. Currency fluctuations may affect product demand and
prices we pay for materials, as a result, our operating margins may be negatively
impacted. Fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or
losses when financial statements of our non-U.S. businesses are translated into
U.S. dollars. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce
the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities bear a
financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in
significantly mitigating such volatility.   

    Volatility of credit markets or
macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business.    

  15  

Changes
in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions,
limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of
financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. In addition, our
borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by
independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our
cost of borrowing.  

            Delays
in our customers  ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of
financing to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations
and cash flow. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result
in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in
significant incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. Lastly, disruptions
in the U.S. and global financial markets could impact the financial
institutions with which we do business.  

    We may be required to recognize impairment
charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments.    

            At
December 31, 2011, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant
and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale
securities totaled approximately $19.1 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically
assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative
industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected
significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and
market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other
long-lived assets. An other than temporary decline in the market value of our
available for sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. Future
impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the
periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated
shareowners  equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which
could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and
equity markets.  

    A change in the level of U.S. Government
defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is
allocated could adversely impact Aerospace s defense and space sales and
results of operations.    

            Sales
of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent
upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime
contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense comprised
approximately 29 and 9 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for
the year ended December 31, 2011.  We cannot predict the extent to which total funding
and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced
as part of the 2012 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress, or
be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. We also
cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military
transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on
existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space
spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in
funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our
results of operations.   

    As a supplier of military and other equipment
to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of
the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct
audits and investigations of our operations and performance.    

            In
addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply
military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual
risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and
regulations and other policies that reflect military and political
developments, significant changes in contract requirements, complexity of
designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for
frequent design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business
necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development,
difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and
highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the
industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract
approvals. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts,
particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments to
contract prices and schedules.  

            Our
contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to various government
audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports
that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to
certain accounting systems or controls to comply with various government
regulations. When appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid
voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future.  

            U.S.
Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for
the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with
the terms of the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for
convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs
incurred, plus   

  16  

termination costs and a reasonable profit. If
a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could
be liable for reprocurement costs incurred by the government in acquiring
undelivered goods or services from another source and for other damages
suffered by the government as permitted under the contract.  

            We
are also subject to government investigations of business practices and
compliance with government procurement regulations. If, as a result of any such
investigation or other government investigations (including violations of
certain environmental or export laws), Honeywell or one of its businesses were
found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or
receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract
performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export
privileges suspended. The U.S. Government also reserves the right to debar a
contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or
other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years.  

    Our reputation
and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of
employees, agents or business partners.    

            We
cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures
will, in all instances, protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by
our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the
jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including laws governing payments
to government officials, competition and data privacy. Any improper actions
could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary
penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results
of operations and reputation.  

    Changes in
legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact
on our results of operations.    

            The
sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government
regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the
Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory
bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product
certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact
Aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and
profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control
Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security,
safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations.
Performance Materials and Technologies  results of operations can be affected
by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and
energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy
efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in
our Transportation Systems segment. Legislation or regulations regarding areas
such as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health, safety and
environmental matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product
certification, and product liability may impact the results of each of our
operating segments and our consolidated results.  

    Completed
acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and
divestitures may not occur as planned.    

            We
regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through
acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to
complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In
addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by
(i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii)
the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to
integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve
synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the
inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms
and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of
protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the
obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested
businesses.  

    We cannot
predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government
proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties.    

            We
are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which
involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our
business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government
contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and
divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property,
import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters.
Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate
results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in
litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are
subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement
strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject
to or be required to pay damage awards or   

  17  

settlements that could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial
condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our
insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured
claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect
against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of
significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance
coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows,
liquidity and financial condition.  

    Our operations and the prior operations of
predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental
liabilities.    

            Mainly
because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are
subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of
environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages
that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have
incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination
and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety
matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances.
Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely
to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal, state,
local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials
into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and
criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment
or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of
accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to
incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In
addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the
discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information
related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal
toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of
new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur
costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial
condition or results of operations.  

    Our expenses include significant costs
related to employee and retiree health benefits.     

            With
approximately 132,000 employees, including approximately 53,000 in the U.S., our
expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are
significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in
certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our
control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess
of the rate of inflation. Continued increasing health-care costs, legislative
or regulatory changes, and volatility in discount rates, as well as changes in
other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may
adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  

    Risks related to our defined benefit pension
plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.    

            Significant
changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and
other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension
contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial
valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and
interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding
requirements for our U.S. pension plans may become more significant. However,
the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things,
interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or
regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. For a discussion
regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense,
including discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan
accounting policies, see  Critical Accounting Policies  included in  Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.    

    Additional tax expense or additional tax
exposures could affect our future profitability.    

            We
are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S.
jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent
upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2011,
our tax expense represented 18.3 percent of our income before tax, and includes
estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and
reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future
earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax
assets. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes
in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in
countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall
profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in
generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred
tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently   

  18  

reinvested offshore, the results of audits
and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of
our tax exposures.   

I  tem 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   

Not
Applicable  

I  tem 2.   

Properties   

We
have approximately 1,300 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories,
sales offices and other facilities. Our headquarters and administrative complex
is located in Morris Township, New Jersey. Our plants are generally located to
serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and
labor pools. Our properties are generally maintained in good operating
condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and
other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is
significantly idle. We own or lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges,
automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data processing
equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs. Our
properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for
our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases
as they expire or in finding alternative facilities.  

            Our
principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are as
follows:  

Aerospace    

Anniston, AL (leased)  

Olathe, KS  

Toronto, Canada  

Glendale, AZ (leased)  

Minneapolis, MN  (partially leased)   

Olomouc, Czech Republic (leased)  

Phoenix, AZ  

Plymouth, MN  

Raunheim, Germany  

Tempe, AZ  

Rocky Mount, NC  

Penang, Malaysia  

Tucson, AZ  

Albuquerque, NM  

Chihuahua, Mexico  

Torrance, CA  

Urbana, OH  

Singapore (leased)  

Clearwater, FL  

Greer, SC  

Yeovil, UK (leased)  

South Bend, IN   

Automation
 and Control Solutions    

San Diego, CA (leased)  

Pleasant Prairie, WI (leased)  

Schonaich, Germany (leased)   

Northford, CT  

Shenzhen, China (leased)  

Pune, India (leased)  

Freeport, IL  

Suzhou, China  

Chihuahua, Mexico  

St. Charles, IL (leased)  

Tianjin, China (leased)  

Juarez, Mexico (partially leased)  

Golden Valley, MN  

Brno, Czech Republic (leased)  

Tijuana, Mexico (leased)   

York, PA (leased)  

Mosbach, Germany  

Emmen, Netherlands  

Neuss, Germany  

Newhouse, Scotland  

Performance
 Materials and Technologies    

Mobile, AL  

Shreveport, LA  

Colonial Heights, VA  

Des Plaines, IL  

Frankford, PA  

Hopewell, VA  

Metropolis, IL  

Pottsville, PA  

Spokane, WA  

Baton Rouge, LA  

Orange, TX  

Seelze, Germany  

Geismar, LA  

Chesterfield, VA  

Transportation Systems     

Shanghai, China  

Atessa, Italy  

Mexicali, Mexico (partially leased)  

Glinde, Germany  

Kodama, Japan  

Bucharest, Romania  

Ansan, Korea (leased)  

Pune India  

19  

I  tem 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

We are
subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which
involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a
discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 21
of Notes to Financial Statements.  

    Environmental
Matters Involving Potential Monetary Sanctions in Excess of $100,000     

            Although the
outcome of the matter discussed below cannot be predicted with certainty, we do
not believe that it will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial position, consolidated results of operations or operating cash flows.  

            The United
States Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Department of
Justice are investigating whether the Company s manufacturing facility in
Hopewell, Virginia is in compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act
and the facility s air operating permit. Based on these investigations, the
federal authorities have issued notices of violation with respect to the
facility s benzene waste operations, leak detection and repair program,
emissions of nitrogen oxides and emissions of particulate matter. The Company
has entered into negotiations with federal authorities to resolve the alleged
violations.   

  20  

E  xecutive Officers of the
Registrant   

  The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected
annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among
them.  

(a)
 Also a Director.  

21  

Part II.   

Item
 5.   

Market
 for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
 Purchases of Equity Securities   

Market
and dividend information for Honeywell s common stock is included in Note 26 of
Notes to Financial Statements in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.   

            The
number of record holders of our common stock at December 31, 2011 was 58,965.  

            Honeywell
purchased 1,450,000 shares of its common stock, par value $1 per share, in the
quarter ending December 31, 2011. Honeywell purchased a total of 20,250,000
shares of its common stock in 2011. Under the Company s previously reported $3
billion share repurchase program, $1.9 billion remained available as of
December 31, 2011 for additional share repurchases. Honeywell presently expects
to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time during 2012 to offset the
dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including future
option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our
savings plans. The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary depending
on market conditions and the level of operating, financing and other investing
activities.   

            The
following table summarizes Honeywell s purchase of its common stock, par value
$1 per share, for the three months ended December 31, 2011:  

22  

Performance Graph   

           The following graph compares the five-year cumulative total return on
our Common Stock to the total returns on the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock
Index and a composite of Standard   Poor s Industrial Conglomerates and
Aerospace and Defense indices, on a 60%/40% weighted basis, respectively (the
 Composite Index ). The weighting of the components of the Composite Index are
based on our segments  relative contribution to total segment profit. The
selection of the Industrial Conglomerates component of the Composite Index
reflects the diverse and distinct range of non-aerospace businesses conducted
by Honeywell. The annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph
are based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in Honeywell stock and
each index on December 31, 2006 and that all dividends were reinvested.  

23  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.   

  The
Consumer Products Group (CPG) automotive aftermarket business had historically
been part of the Transportation Systems reportable segment. In accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, CPG is presented as discontinued
operations in all periods presented. See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures
for further details. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with Honeywell s Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included
elsewhere in this Annual Report as well as the section of this Annual Report
titled Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.  

I  tem 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

(1)  

For the year ended December 31, 2011,
 Income from discontinued operations includes a $178 million, net of tax gain,
 resulting from the sale of the CPG business which funded a portion of the
 2011 repositioning actions.  

(2)  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, Net
 income attributable to Honeywell includes a $417 million, net of tax gain,
 resulting from the sale of our Consumables Solutions business as well as a charge
 of $465 million for environmental liabilities deemed probable and reasonably
 estimable during 2008.  

24  

Item 7.   

Management s
 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   

            The
following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations ( MD A ) is intended to help the reader understand
the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International
Inc. ( Honeywell ) for the three years ended December 31, 2011. All references
to Notes related to Notes to the Financial Statements in  Item 8-Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data .  

            The Consumer
Products Group (CPG) automotive aftermarket business had historically been part
of the Transportation Systems reportable segment. In accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, CPG results are excluded from continuing
operations and are presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented.
See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures for further details.  

   CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

             Net
Sales    

The change in net sales compared
to the prior year period is attributable to the following:  

A discussion of net sales by segment can be
found in the Review of Business Segments section of this MD A.  

Cost of Products and Services Sold    

Cost of
products and services sold increased by $3,835 million or 16 percent in 2011
compared with 2010 principally due to an estimated increase in direct material
costs, labor costs and indirect costs of approximately $2 billion, $520
million, and $280 million, respectively, driven substantially by a 13 percent
increase in sales as a result of the factors (excluding price) discussed above
and in the Review of Business Segments section of this MD A, an increase in
pension and other postretirement expense of approximately $880 million
(primarily driven by the increase in the pension mark-to-market adjustment
allocated to cost of goods sold of $1.1 billion) and an increase in
repositioning and other charges of approximately $90 million.  

            Gross margin
percentage decreased by 1.8 percentage points in 2011 compared with 2010
primarily due to higher pension and other postretirement expense (approximate
2.8 percentage point impact primarily driven by an unfavorable 3.3 percentage
point impact resulting from the increase in the pension mark-to-market
adjustment allocated to cost of goods sold) and repositioning and other charges
(approximate 0.2 percentage point impact),   

  25  

partially offset by higher sales
volume driven by each of our business segments (approximate 1.2 percentage
point impact).  

            Cost of
products and services sold increased by $1,461 million or 6 percent in 2010
compared with 2009, principally due to an estimated increase in direct material
costs and indirect costs of approximately $1,250 million and $300 million,
respectively, driven substantially by an 8 percent increase in sales as a
result of the factors discussed above and in the Review of Business Segments
section of this MD A and approximately $130 million increase in
repositioning and other charges (see Note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements),
partially offset by a $300 million decrease in pension expense.   

            Gross margin
percentage increased by 1.3 percentage points in 2010 compared with 2009,
primarily due to lower pension expense (approximate 1 percentage point impact)
and higher sales volume driven by our Automation and Control Solutions segment,
Performance Materials and Technologies segment and Transportation Systems
segment (approximate 0.7 percentage point impact), partially offset by higher
repositioning and other charges (approximate 0.5 percentage point impact).  

             Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses   

Selling, general
and administrative expenses (SG A) increased as a percentage of sales by
0.5 percent in 2011 compared to 2010 driven by an estimated $430 million
increase in labor costs resulting from acquisitions, investment for growth, and
merit increases, an estimated increase of $240 million in pension and other
postretirement expense (driven primarily by the allocated portion of the
pension mark-to-market charge increase of approximately $270 million) and an
estimated increase of $60 million in repositioning actions, partially offset by
the impact of higher sales volume as a result of the factors discussed in the
Review of Business Segments section of this MD A.  

            Selling,
general and administrative expenses (SG A) decreased as a percentage of
sales by 0.1 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 driven by the impact of higher
sales volume, discussed above, and lower pension expense, partially offset by
an estimated $500 million increase in labor costs (reflecting the absence of
prior period labor cost actions).  

Other income
decreased by $13 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to a $29
million loss resulting from early redemption of debt in the first quarter of
2011, included within  Other, net , and the absence of a $62 million pre-tax
gain related to the consolidation of a joint venture within our Performance
Materials and Technologies segment in the third quarter of 2010, included
within  Other, net , (see Note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements for further
details), partially offset by a $61 million increase in gain on sale of
non-strategic businesses and assets due primarily to a $50 million pre-tax gain
related to the divestiture of the automotive on-board sensors products business
within our Automation and Control Solutions segment and the reduction of
approximately $12 million of acquisition related costs compared to 2010
included within  Other, net .  

            Other income
increased by $43 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the
consolidation of a joint venture resulting in a $62 million pre-tax gain within
our Performance Materials and Technologies segment in the third quarter of
2010, included in  Other, net  (see Note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements for
further details),   

  26  

the absence of an other-than-temporary impairment charge  of  $62 million in the second
quarter of 2009, included within  Other, net , partially offset by the absence
of a $50 million deconsolidation gain related to a subsidiary within our
Automation and Control Solutions segment in 2009, included within  Gain on sale
of non-strategic businesses and assets , and $22 million of acquisition related
costs in 2010, included within  Other, net .    

Interest and
other financial charges decreased by 3% percent in 2011 compared with 2010
primarily due to lower borrowing costs, partially offset by higher debt
balances.  

            Interest and
other financial charges decreased by 16% percent in 2010 compared with 2009 due
to lower debt balances and lower borrowing costs.  

            Tax Expense    

The
effective tax rate decreased by 9.8 percentage points in 2011 compared with
2010 primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign
    related to higher U.S. pension expense (primarily driven by an approixmate
    7.6 percentage point impact which resulted from the increase in pension mark-to-market
    expense), an increased benefit from manufacturing incentives, an increased
    benefit from the favorable settlement of tax audits and an increased benefit
    from a lower foreign effective tax rate. The foreign effective tax rate was
    21.1 percent, a decrease of approximately 4.9 percentage points which primarily
    consisted of (i) a 5.1 percent impact from decreased valuation allowances
    on net operating losses primarily due to an increase in German earnings available
    to be offset by net operating loss carry forwards, (ii) a 2.4 percent impact
    from tax benefits related to foreign exchange and investment losses, iii)
    a 1.2 percent impact from an increased benefit in tax credits and lower statutory
    tax rates, and (iv) a 4.1 percent impact related to an increase in tax reserves.
    The effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent
    primarily due to earnings taxed at lower foreign rates.  

            The
effective tax rate increased by 5.9 percentage points in 2010 compared with
2009 primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings related to lower U.S.
pension expense, the impact of an enacted change in the tax treatment of the
Medicare Part D program, the absence of manufacturing incentives, a decreased
impact from the settlement of audits and an increase in the foreign effective
tax rate. The foreign effective tax rate increased by approximately 7
percentage points which primarily consisted of i) a 6 percentage point impact
from the absence of tax benefits related to foreign exchange and investment
losses and ii) a (0.1) percentage points impact from increased valuation
allowances on net operating losses. The effective tax rate was lower than the
U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent primarily due to earnings taxed at lower
foreign rates.  

            In
2012, the effective tax rate could change based upon the Company s operating
results, mix of earnings and the outcome of tax positions taken regarding
previously filed tax returns currently under audit by various Federal, State
and foreign tax authorities, several of which may be finalized in the
foreseeable future. The Company believes that it has adequate reserves for
these matters, the outcome of which could materially impact the results of
operations and operating cash flows in the period they are resolved.  

  27  

Earnings
per share of common stock   assuming dilution increased by $0.02 per share in
2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to an increase in segment profit in each
of our business segments, lower tax expense, the gain on disposal of
discontinued operations, and lower other postretirement expense, partially offset
by higher pension expense (primarily due to an increase in the pension
mark-to-market adjustment) and higher repositioning and other charges.   

            Earnings
per share of common stock   assuming dilution increased by $0.54 per share in
2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to increased segment profit in our
Automation and Control Solutions, Performance Materials and Technologies and
Transportation Systems segments and lower pension expense, partially offset by
higher tax expense and higher repositioning and other charges.  

            For
further discussion of segment results, see  Review of Business Segments .  

   BUSINESS OVERVIEW   

            This
Business Overview provides a summary of Honeywell and its four reportable
operating segments (Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions, Performance
Materials and Technologies and Transportation Systems), including their
respective areas of focus for 2012 and the relevant economic and other factors
impacting their results, and a discussion of each segment s results for the
three years ended December 31, 2011. Each of these segments is comprised of
various product and service classes that serve multiple end markets. See Note
23 to the financial statements for further information on our reportable
segments and our definition of segment profit.  

   Economic and Other Factors    

            In
addition to the factors listed below with respect to each of our operating
segments, our consolidated operating results are principally driven by:  

Impact of change in global
 economic growth rates (U.S., Europe and emerging regions) and industry
 conditions on demand in our key end markets;  

Overall sales mix, in
 particular the mix of Aerospace original equipment and aftermarket sales and
 the mix of Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) products, distribution and
 services sales;  

The extent to which cost
 savings from productivity actions are able to offset or exceed the impact of
 material and non-material inflation;  

The impact of the pension
 discount rate and asset returns on pension expense, including mark-to-market
 adjustments, and funding requirements; and  

The impact of fluctuations
 in foreign currency exchange rates (Euro and other global currencies),
 relative to the U.S. dollar.  

Areas of
 Focus for 2012    

The areas of focus for
 2012, which are generally applicable to each of our operating segments,
 include:  

Driving profitable growth and margin
     expansion by building innovative products that address customer needs;  

28  

Achieving sales growth,
 technological excellence and manufacturing capability and capacity through
 global expansion, especially focused on emerging regions in China, India, the
 Middle East and other high growth regions;  

Proactively managing raw
 material costs through formula and long term supply agreements, price
 increases and hedging activities, where feasible;  

Driving cash flow
 conversion through effective working capital management and capital
 investment in our businesses, thereby enhancing liquidity, repayment of debt,
 strategic acquisitions, and the ability to return value to shareholders;  

Maintaining a flexible
 cost structure to ensure our ability to proactively respond to trends in
 short-cycle end markets such as the Transportation Systems Turbo business, ACS
 Energy, Safety   Security businesses, Aerospace commercial after-market
 and Performance Materials and Technologies Advanced Materials business;  

Aligning and prioritizing
 investments in long-term growth considering short-term demand volatility;  

Driving productivity
 savings through execution of repositioning actions;   

Controlling discretionary
 spending levels with focus on non-customer related costs;  

Utilizing our enablers Honeywell Operating System (HOS), Functional
Transformation and Velocity Product Development (VPD) to drive margin expansion by standardizing the way we work, reducing cycle
time, optimizing effectiveness of R D, increasing quality and reducing the costs of product manufacturing, reducing costs and
enhancing the quality of our administrative functions and improving business operations through investments in systems and process
improvements;  

Monitoring both suppliers
 and customers for signs of liquidity constraints, limiting exposure to any
 resulting inability to meet delivery commitments or pay amounts due, and
 identifying alternate sources of supply as necessary; and  

Controlling
 Corporate costs, including costs incurred for asbestos and environmental
 matters, pension and other post-retirement expenses and tax expense.  

29  

Review of Business Segments   

30  

A reconciliation of segment profit to
consolidated income from continuing operations before taxes are as follows:  

(1)  

Equity income/(loss) of affiliated companies is included in Segment
 Profit.  

(2)  

Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling,
 general and administrative expenses.  

31  

Aerospace   

             Overview   

            Aerospace
is a leading global supplier of aircraft engines, avionics, and related
products and services for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, aircraft operators,
military services, and defense and space contractors. Our Aerospace products
and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental
control systems, electric power systems, engine controls, flight safety,
communications, navigation, radar and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting,
management and technical services, logistics services, advanced systems and
instruments, aircraft wheels and brakes and repair and overhaul services.
Aerospace sells its products to original equipment (OE) manufacturers in the
air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft segments, and
provides spare parts and repair and maintenance services for the aftermarket
(principally to aircraft operators). The United States Government is a major
customer for our defense and space products.  

               Economic and Other Factors    

            Aerospace
operating results are principally driven by:  

  32  

New aircraft production rates and delivery schedules set by
 commercial air transport, regional jet, business and general aviation OE
 manufacturers, as well as airline profitability, platform mix and retirement
 of aircraft from service;  

Global demand for commercial air travel as reflected in global flying
 hours and utilization rates for corporate and general aviation aircraft, as
 well as the demand for spare parts and maintenance and repair services for
 aircraft currently in use;  

Level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space
 programs and military activity;   

Changes in customer platform development schedules, requirements and
 demands for new technologies; and  

Availability and price volatility of raw materials such as titanium
 and other metals.  

Aerospace
sales by major customer end-markets were as follows:  

2011 compared with 2010    

            Aerospace
sales increased by 7 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to an
increase in organic growth of 7 percent primarily due to increased commercial
sales volume.   

  33  

Details regarding the changes in sales by customer end-markets are as
 follows:  

Air transport and regional original equipment (OE) sales increased by
 6 percent in 2011 primarily driven by higher sales to our OE customers,
 consistent with higher production rates, platform mix and a higher win rate
 on selectables (components selected by purchasers of new aircraft).   

Air transport and regional aftermarket sales increased by 16 percent
for 2011 primarily due to (i) increased maintenance activity and spare parts sales driven by an approximately 6 percent increase
in global flying hours, (ii) increased sales of avionics upgrades, and (iii) changes in customer buying patterns relating to spare
parts and maintenance activity.   

Business and general aviation OE sales increased by 41 percent in
 2011 due to a rebound from near trough levels in 2010 and strong demand in
 the business jet end market, favorable platform mix, growth from acquisitions
 and lower OEM Payments (as defined below) during 2011.   

Business and general aviation aftermarket sales increased by 24
 percent in 2011 primarily due to increased sales of spare parts and revenue
 associated with maintenance service agreements.   

Defense and space sales decreased by 2 percent in 2011 primarily due
 to anticipated program ramp downs, partially offset by higher domestic and
 international aftermarket sales, increased unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)
 shipments and the EMS acquisition (refer to Note 2).   

Aerospace
segment profit increased by 10 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due
to an increase in operational segment profit of 9 percent and an increase of 1
percent due to lower OEM Payments made during 2011. The increase in operational
segment profit is comprised of the positive impact from higher commercial
aftermarket demand, price and productivity, net of inflation, partially offset
by research, development and engineering investments. Cost of goods sold
totaled $8.7 billion in 2011, an increase of approximately $566 million from
2010 which is primarily a result of the factors discussed above.  

             2010
compared with 2009   

            Aerospace
sales decreased by 1 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to a 1
percent reduction of revenue related to amounts recognized for payments to
business and general aviation original equipment manufacturers to partially
offset their pre-production costs associated with new aircraft platforms (OEM
Payments).   

            Details
regarding the decrease in sales by customer end-markets are as follows:  

Air transport and regional original equipment (OE) sales decreased by
 2 percent in 2010 primarily due to lower sales to our air transport OE
 customers.   

Air transport and regional aftermarket sales increased by 1 percent
 in 2010 primarily due to increased sales of spare parts driven by the impact
 of increased flying hours of approximately 6 percent in 2010.   

Business and general aviation OE sales decreased by 27 percent in
 2010 due to decreases in new business jet deliveries reflecting rescheduling
 and cancellations of deliveries by OE customers in the first six months and
 the impact of the OEM Payments discussed above.   

Business and general aviation aftermarket sales increased by 8
 percent in 2010 primarily due to increased sales of spare parts due to higher
 engine utilization, partially offset by lower revenue associated with
 licensing and maintenance service agreements.   

Defense and space sales increased by 1 percent in 2010 primarily due
 to higher sales of logistics services partially offset by program wind-downs
 and completions and lower sales related to commercial helicopters.   

Aerospace
segment profit decreased by 3 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to
a negative 3 percent impact from the OEM payments, discussed above. Operational
segment profit was flat in 2010 with the approximate positive 4 percent impact
from price and productivity, net of inflation (including the absence of prior
period labor cost actions offset by the benefits from prior repositioning
actions) offset by an approximate negative 4 percent impact from lower sales
volume. Cost of goods sold totaled $8.1 billion in 2010, unchanged from 2009.   

  34  

2012 Areas of Focus    

            Aerospace s
primary areas of focus for 2012 include:  

Driving customer satisfaction through operational excellence (product
 quality, cycle time reduction, and supplier management);  

Aligning research and development and customer support costs with
 customer requirements and demand for new platforms;  

Expanding sales and operations in international locations;  

Global pursuit of new defense and space programs;  

Focusing on cost structure initiatives to maintain profitability in
 face of potential defense and space budget reductions and program specific appropriations;  

Continuing to design equipment that enhances the safety, performance
 and durability of aerospace and defense equipment, while reducing weight and
 operating costs; and  

Continued deployment and optimization of our common enterprise
 resource planning (ERP) system.  

Automation and
Control Solutions (ACS)   

               Overview    

            ACS
provides innovative products and solutions that make homes, buildings,
industrial sites and infrastructure more efficient, safe and comfortable. Our
ACS products and services include controls for heating, cooling, indoor air
quality, ventilation, humidification, lighting and home automation; advanced
software applications for home/building control and optimization; sensors,
switches, control systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow,
temperature and electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; personal
protection equipment; access control; video surveillance; remote patient
monitoring systems; products for automatic identification and data collection,
installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems that keep buildings safe,
comfortable and productive; and automation and control solutions for industrial
plants, including advanced software and automation systems that integrate,
control and monitor complex processes in many types of industrial settings as
well as equipment that controls, measures and analyzes natural gas production
and transportation.  

            In
2011, we changed our presentation of ACS s segment sales to better represent
the key markets served (Energy, Safety   Security; Process Solutions;
Building Solutions   Distribution). Prior period disclosure below has been
conformed to this presentation format.   

               Economic and Other Factors    

            ACS s
operating results are principally driven by:  

Global commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades);  

Demand for residential security and environmental control retrofits
 and upgrades;  

Demand for energy efficient products and solutions;  

Industrial production;  

Government and public sector spending;  

Economic conditions and growth rates in developed (U.S. and Europe)
 and emerging markets;  

The strength of global capital and operating spending on process (including
 petrochemical and refining) and building automation;   

Inventory levels in distribution channels; and  

Changes to energy, fire, security, health care, safety and
 environmental concerns and regulations.  

35  

2011 compared with 2010    

            Automation
and Control Solutions ( ACS ) sales increased by 13 percent in 2011 compared
with 2010, primarily due to a 6 percent growth from acquisitions, net of
divestitures, 5 percent increase in organic revenue driven by increased sales
volume and higher prices and 2 percent favorable impact of foreign exchange
through the first nine months partially offset by the negative impact of
foreign exchange in the fourth quarter. We expect sales growth to continue to
moderate in the first quarter of 2012 due to European economic conditions and
the anticipated negative impact of foreign exchange.   

Sales in our Energy, Safety   Security businesses increased by 17
 percent (6 percent organically) in 2011 principally due to (i) the positive
 impact of acquisitions (most significantly Sperian and EMS), net of
 divestitures (ii) higher sales volume due to general industrial recovery and
 new product introductions and (iii) the favorable impact of foreign exchange.

Sales in our Process Solutions increased 12 percent (6 percent
 organically) in 2011 principally due to (i) increased volume reflecting
 conversion to sales from backlog (ii) the favorable impact of foreign
 exchange and (iii) the impact of acquisitions. Orders increased in 2011
 compared to 2010 primarily driven by continued favorable macro trends in oil
 and gas infrastructure projects, growth in emerging regions and the positive
 impact of foreign exchange.   

Sales in our Building Solutions   Distribution increased by 6
 percent (4 percent organically) in 2011 driven principally due to (i) volume
 growth in our Building Solutions business reflecting conversion to sales from
 order backlog and increased sales volume in our Distribution business (ii)
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange and (iii) the impact of
 acquisitions, net of divestitures.   

ACS
segment profit increased by 18 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 due to a 9
percent increase in operational segment profit, 6 percent increase from
acquisitions, net of divestitures and 3 percent positive impact of foreign
exchange. The increase in operational segment profit is comprised of an
approximate 5 percent positive impact from price and productivity, net of
inflation and investment for growth and a 4 percent positive impact from higher
sales volumes. Cost of goods sold totaled $10.4 billion in 2011, an increase of
approximately $1.1 billion which is primarily due to acquisitions, net of
divestitures, higher sales volume, foreign exchange and inflation partially
offset by positive impact from productivity.   

               2010 compared with 2009    

            ACS
sales increased by 9 percent in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to a 6
percent increase in organic revenue driven by increased sales volume and 3
percent growth from acquisitions.  

  36  

Sales in our Energy, Safety   Security businesses increased by 14
 percent in 2010 primarily reflecting higher sales volumes in our businesses
 tied to industrial production (environmental and combustion controls, sensing
 and control, gas detection, personal protective equipment and scanning and
 mobility products), new product introductions and acquisitions, primarily
 Sperian.   

Sales in Process Solutions increased 7 percent in 2010 primarily due
 to the positive impact of increased volume, acquisitions (primarily the RMG
 Group), higher prices and industrial field solutions driven by order growth
 and conversion to sales from order backlog.  

Sales in Building Solutions   Distribution increased by 3 percent
 in 2010 driven primarily by energy efficiency projects and conversion to
 sales from order backlog.  

ACS
segment profit increased by 11 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 due to a 9
percent increase in operational segment profit and 2 percent increase from
acquisitions. The increase in operational segment profit is comprised of an
approximate 18 percent positive impact from higher sales volume, partially
offset by an approximate 9 percent negative impact from inflation, net of price
and productivity (including the absence of prior period labor cost actions,
partially offset by the benefits of prior repositioning). Cost of goods sold
totaled $9.3 billion in 2010, an increase of approximately $750 million which
is primarily as a result of the factors discussed above.  

               2012 Areas of Focus    

            ACS s
primary areas of focus for 2012 include:  

Products and solutions for energy efficiency and asset management;  

Extending technology leadership: lowest total installed cost and
 integrated product solutions;  

Defending and extending our installed base through customer
 productivity and globalization;  

Sustaining strong brand recognition through our brand and channel
 management;  

Continued centralization and standardization of global software
 development capabilities;  

Continuing to identify, execute and integrate acquisitions in or adjacent
 to the markets which we serve;  

Continuing to establish and grow emerging markets presence and
 capability;   

Continuing to invest in new product development and introductions;   

Continued deployment and optimization of our common ERP system; and  

Increased focus on commercial and R D effectiveness.   

Performance Materials
and Technologies (PMT)   

               Overview    

            During the
fourth quarter of 2011, the Specialty Materials segment was renamed to
Performance Materials and Technologies ( PMT ). PMT better reflects the
businesses  expanded set of technology and product offerings that reach far
beyond the traditional scope associated with specialty materials.   

            Performance
Materials and Technologies develops and manufactures high-purity, high-quality
and high-performance chemicals and materials for applications in the refining,
petrochemical, automotive, healthcare, agricultural, packaging, refrigeration,
appliance, housing, semiconductor, wax and adhesives segments. Performance
Materials and Technologies also provides process technology, products and
services for the petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical, renewable
energy and other industries. Performance Materials and Technologies  product
portfolio includes fluorocarbons, hydrofluoroolefins, caprolactam, resins,
ammonium sulfate for fertilizer, phenol, specialty films, waxes, additives,
advanced fibers, customized research chemicals and intermediates, electronic
materials and chemicals, catalysts, and adsorbents.  

  37  

Economic
 and Other Factors   

Performance
 Materials and Technologies operating results are principally driven by:  

Level and timing
 of capital spending and capacity and utilization rates in refining and
 petrochemical end markets;  

Pricing volatility
 and industry supply conditions for raw materials such as cumene, fluorspar,
 perchloroethylene, R240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene;  

Impact of
 environmental and energy efficiency regulations;  

Extent of change
 in order rates from global semiconductor customers;  

Global demand for
 non-ozone depleting Hydro fluorocarbons (HFCs);  

Condition of the
 U.S. residential housing and non residential industries and automotive
 demand;  

Global demand for
 caprolactam and ammonium sulfate; and  

Demand for new
 products including renewable energy and biofuels.  

2011
 compared with 2010   

PMT
 sales increased by 20 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 due to a 16 percent
 increase in organic growth, 3 percent growth from acquisitions, and a 1
 percent favorable impact of foreign exchange.  

Advanced Materials
 sales increased by 18 percent (12 percent organically) in 2011 compared to
 2010 primarily driven by (i) a 33 percent (18 percent organically) increase
 in Resins and Chemicals sales primarily due to higher prices driven by strong
 Asia demand, agricultural demand, formula pricing arrangements and increased
 sales resulting from the acquisition of a phenol plant, partially offset by
 decreased volumes primarily due to disruptions in phenol supply and weather
 related events, (ii) a 10 percent increase in our Fluorine Products business
 due to higher pricing reflecting robust global demand and tight industry
 supply conditions primarily in the first half of the year, which moderated in
 the second half of the year due to seasonally weaker demand and increased
 available capacity in the marketplace, (iii) a 12 percent increase in
 Specialty Products sales primarily due to higher sales volume in our armor,
 additives, and healthcare packaging products, and commercial excellence initiatives.
 We expect Advanced Materials sales growth to continue to moderate during the
 first half of 2012 due to slowing global demand and lower prices resulting
 from increased availability of refrigerants supply.   

38  

UOP sales
 increased by 24 percent in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily driven by
 increased service, and licensing revenues and higher unit sales of refining
 and specialty catalysts, primarily reflecting continued strength in the
 refining and petrochemical industries.   

PMT
 segment profit increased by 39 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 due to a 38
 percent increase in operational segment profit and a 1 percent favorable
 impact of foreign exchange. The increase in operational segment profit is
 primarily due to the favorable price to raw materials spread in Resins and
 Chemicals and Fluorine Products and higher service, product and licensing
 revenues in UOP, partially offset by continued investment in growth and plant
 optimization initiatives. Cost of goods sold totaled $4.2 billion in 2011, an
 increase of approximately $597 million which is primarily due to volume,
 material inflation, the phenol plant acquisition and continued investment in
 growth initiatives.  

2010
 compared with 2009   

PMT sales
 increased by 14 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 predominantly due to
 organic growth.  

Advanced Materials
 sales increased by 23 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily driven by
 (i) a 29 percent increase in Resins and Chemicals sales primarily due to
 higher prices driven by strong Asia demand, formula pricing arrangements and
 agricultural demand, (ii) a 21 percent increase in Specialty Products sales
 most significantly due to higher sales volume to our semiconductor, specialty
 additives, advanced fiber industrial applications and specialty chemicals
 customers, (iii) a 19 percent increase in our Fluorine Products business due
 to higher sales volume from increased demand for our refrigerants, insulating
 materials and industrial processing aids.   

UOP sales
 decreased by 1 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily driven by lower new
 unit catalyst sales and timing of projects activity in the refining and
 petrochemical industries, partially offset by increased gas processing
 equipment sales.   

PMT
 segment profit increased by 24 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 due to a 25
 percent increase in operational segment profit. The increase in operational
 segment profit is primarily due to a 24 percent positive impact from higher
 sales volumes. The positive impact from price and productivity was offset by
 the negative impact from inflation (including the absence of prior period
 labor cost actions). Cost of goods sold totaled $3.6 billion in 2010, an
 increase of approximately $400 million which is primarily as a result of the
 factors discussed above.  

2012
 Areas of Focus   

Performance
 Materials and Technologies primary areas of focus for 2012 include:  

Continuing to
 develop new processes, products and technologies that address energy
 efficiency, the environment and security, as well as position the portfolio
 for higher value;  

Commercializing
 new products and technologies in the petrochemical, gas processing and
 refining industries and renewable energy sector;  

Investing to
 increase plant capacity and reliability and improving productivity and
 quality through operational excellence;  

Driving sales and
 marketing excellence and expanding local presence in fast growing emerging
 markets; and  

Managing exposure
 to raw material price and supply fluctuations through evaluation of
 alternative sources of supply and contractual arrangements.  

39  

Transportation
 Systems   

Overview   

Transportation
 Systems provides automotive products that improve the performance and efficiency
 of cars, trucks, and other vehicles through state-of-the-art technologies,
 world class brands and global solutions to customers  needs. Transportation
 Systems  products include turbochargers and thermal systems; and friction
 materials (Bendix(R) and Jurid(R)) and brake hard parts. Transportation
 Systems sells its products to original equipment ( OE ) automotive and truck
 manufacturers (e.g., BMW, Caterpillar, Daimler, Renault, Ford, and
 Volkswagen), wholesalers and distributors and through the retail aftermarket.  

Economic
 and Other Factors   

Transportation
 Systems operating results are principally driven by:  

Financial strength
 and stability of automotive OE manufacturers;  

Global demand,
 particularly in Western Europe, for automobile and truck production;  

Turbo penetration
 rates for new engine platforms;  

Global consumer
 preferences, particularly in Western Europe, for boosted diesel passenger
 cars;  

Degree of
 volatility in raw material prices, including nickel and steel;  

New automobile
 production rates and the impact of inventory levels of automotive OE
 manufacturers on demand for our products;  

Regulations
 mandating lower emissions and improved fuel economy;   

Consumers  ability
 to obtain financing for new vehicle purchases; and   

Impact of factors
 such as consumer confidence on automotive aftermarket demand.  

2011
compared with 2010   

            Transportation
Systems sales increased by 21 percent in 2011 compared with the 2010 primarily
due to a 16 percent increase in organic revenue driven by increased sales
volume and a favorable impact of foreign exchange of 5 percent.   

  40  

The sales
increase in 2011 as compared with 2010 was primarily driven by (i) increased
turbocharger sales to both light vehicle and commercial vehicle engine
manufacturers primarily due to new platform launches and strong diesel
penetration rates in Western Europe and (ii) the favorable impact of foreign
exchange. We expect turbocharger year over year sales growth rate to moderate
in the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to reduced European light vehicle
production and the anticipated negative impact of foreign exchange.   

            Transportation
Systems segment profit increased by 37 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 due
to a 32 percent increase in operational segment profit and a 5 percent
favorable impact of foreign exchange. The increase in operational segment
profit is comprised of an approximate 25 percent positive impact from
productivity, net of inflation and price, and 7 percent positive impact from
higher sales volumes. Cost of goods sold totaled $3.2 billion in 2011, an
increase of $533 million which is primarily a result of higher sales volume,
foreign exchange and inflation, partially offset by positive impact from
productivity.   

             2010 compared with 2009   

            Transportation
Systems sales increased by 31 percent in 2010 compared with the 2009, primarily
due to a 33 percent increase in organic revenue driven by increased sales
volume, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2
percent.  

            The sales
increase in 2010 as compared with 2009 was primarily due to increased turbocharger
sales to both light vehicle and commercial vehicle engine manufacturers
partially offset by the negative impacts of foreign exchange.   

            Transportation
Systems segment profit increased by $292 million in 2010 compared with 2009
predominantly due to the positive impact from increased sales volume. Cost of
goods sold totaled $2.6 billion in 2010, an increase of approximately $450
million which is also primarily a result of increased sales volume.   

2012
 Areas of Focus   

Transportation
 Systems primary areas of focus in 2012 include:  

Sustaining
 superior turbocharger technology through successful platform launches;  

Maintaining the
 high quality of current products while executing new product introductions;  

Increasing global
 penetration and share of diesel and gasoline turbocharger OEM demand;  

Addressing
 capacity challenges and improving cost structure through increasing plant
 productivity and expansion of global manufacturing footprint;  

Aligning cost
 structure with current economic outlook, and successful execution of
 repositioning actions; and  

Aligning
 development efforts and costs with new turbo platform launch schedules.  

Repositioning and Other Charges   

            See Note 3
to the financial statements for a discussion of repositioning and other charges
incurred in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Our repositioning actions are expected to
generate incremental pretax savings of approximately $150 million in 2012
compared with 2011 principally from planned workforce reductions. Cash
expenditures for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute our
repositioning actions were $159, $147, and $193 million in 2011, 2010, and
2009, respectively. Such expenditures for severance and other exit costs have
been funded principally through operating cash flows. Cash expenditures for
severance and other costs necessary to execute the remaining actions are
expected to be approximately $150 million in 2012 and will be funded through
operating cash flows.  

            The
following tables provide details of the pretax impact of total net
repositioning and other charges by segment.  

  41  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES   

            The
Company continues to manage its businesses to maximize operating cash flows as
the primary source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating
cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines,
short-term debt from the commercial paper market, long-term borrowings, and
access to the public debt and equity markets, as well as the ability to sell
trade accounts receivables. We continue to balance our cash and financing uses
through investment in our existing core businesses, acquisition activity, share
repurchases and dividends.  

   Cash Flow Summary    

            Our
cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended 2011, 2010 and
2009, are summarized as follows:  

  42  

2011
compared with 2010   

            Cash
provided by operating activities decreased by $1,370 million during 2011
compared with 2010 primarily due to i) increased voluntary cash contributions
of $1,050 million to our U.S. pension plans, ii) an unfavorable impact from
decreased deferred taxes (excluding the impact of cash taxes) of approximately
$710 million, and iii) higher cash tax payments of approximately $500 million,
partially offset by an $863 million increase of net income before the non-cash
pension mark-to-market adjustment.   

            Cash
used for investing activities decreased by $1,658 million during 2011 compared
with 2010 primarily due to an increase in proceeds from sale of businesses of
$1,149 million (most significantly the divestiture of the Consumer Products
Group business and the automotive on-board sensor products business within our
Automation and Control Solutions segment), a decrease in cash paid for
acquisitions of $330 million, and a net $315 million decrease in investments of
short-term marketable securities.   

            Cash
used for financing activities decreased by $933 million during 2011 compared to
2010 primarily due to an increase in the net proceeds from debt of $1,734
million and a decrease of $293 million in the payment of debt assumed with
acquisitions, partially offset by an increase of $1,085 million of repurchases
of common stock.   

             2010
compared with 2009   

            Cash
provided by operating activities increased by $257 million during 2010 compared
with 2009 primarily due to i) increased accrued expenses of $690 million (due
to increased customer advances and incentive compensation accruals), ii) a $550
million impact from increased deferred taxes (excluding the impact of cash
taxes), iii) increased net income of $474 million, iv) lower cash tax payments
of approximately $300 million and v) a $219 million decrease in payments for
repositioning and other charges, partially offset by a i) $1,059 unfavorable
impact from working capital driven by higher receivables and increased
purchases of raw materials and component inventory to support higher demand,
partially offset by a corresponding increase to accounts payable, ii) increased
pension and other postretirement payments of $598 million and iii) the absence
of $155 million sale of long-term receivables in 2009.  

            Cash
used for investing activities increased by $1,136 million during 2010 compared
with 2009 primarily due to an increase in cash paid for acquisitions of $835
million (most significantly Sperian Protection), and a net $341 million
increase in investments in short-term marketable securities  

            Cash
used for financing activities decreased by $105 million during 2010 compared
with 2009 primarily due to a decrease in the net repayment of debt (including
commercial paper) of $287 million and an increase in the proceeds from the
issuance of common stock, primarily related to stock option exercises of $158
million, partially offset by the repayment of $326 million of debt assumed in
the acquisition of Sperian Protection.   

   Liquidity   

            Each
of our businesses is focused on implementing strategies to increase operating
cash flows through revenue growth, margin expansion and improved working
capital turnover. Considering the current economic environment in which each of
the businesses operate and their business plans and strategies, including the
focus on growth, cost reduction and productivity initiatives, the Company
believes that cash balances and operating cash flows are the principal source
of liquidity. In addition to the available cash and operating cash flows,
additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short term debt
from the commercial paper markets, long-term borrowings, and access to the
public debt and equity markets, as well as the ability to sell trade accounts
receivables. At December 31, 2011, a substantial portion of the Company s cash
and cash equivalents were held by foreign subsidiaries. If the amounts held
outside of the U.S. were to be repatriated, under current   

  43  

law, they would be subject to U.S. federal
income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. However, our intent is to
permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. It is not practicable to
estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if some or all of such
earnings were to be repatriated, and the amount of foreign tax credits that
would be available to reduce or eliminate the resulting U.S. income tax
liability.  

            A
source of liquidity is our ability to issue short-term debt in the commercial
paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity
of not more than 365 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the
commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well
as for financing potential acquisitions. There was $599 million of commercial
paper outstanding at December 31, 2011.  

            Our
ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these
borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market
conditions. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major
independent debt-rating agencies. As of December 31, 2011, Standard and Poor s
(S P), Fitch, and Moody s have ratings on our long-term debt of A, A and A2
respectively, and short-term debt of A-1, F1 and P1 respectively. S P,
Fitch and Moody s have Honeywell s rating outlook as  stable . To date, the
company has not experienced any limitations in our ability to access these
sources of liquidity.   

            We
also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under which we may issue additional debt securities, common
stock and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms
to be determined at the time of the offering. Net proceeds of any offering
would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing
indebtedness, capital expenditures and acquisitions.  

            As
a source of liquidity, we sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts
receivables to third parties. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, none of the
receivables in the designated pools had been sold to third parties. When we
sell receivables, they are over-collateralized and we retain a subordinated
interest in the pool of receivables representing that over-collateralization as
well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. The
terms of the trade accounts receivable program permit the repurchase of
receivables from the third parties at our discretion, providing us with an
additional source of revolving credit. As a result, program receivables remain
on the Company s balance sheet with a corresponding amount recorded as either
Short-term borrowings or Long-term debt.  

            In
February 2011, the Company issued $800 million 4.25% Senior Notes due 2021 and
$600 million 5.375% Senior Notes due 2041 (collectively, the  Notes ). The
Notes are senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank
equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior unsecured debt and
senior to all of Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering resulted in gross
proceeds of $1,400 million, offset by $19 million in discount and closing costs
related to the offering.   

            In
the first quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased the entire outstanding
principal amount of its $400 million 5.625% Notes due 2012 via a cash tender
offer and a subsequent optional redemption. The costs relating to the early
redemption of the Notes, including the  make-whole premium , was $29 million.  

            In
March 2011, the Company entered into a $2,800 million Five Year Credit
Agreement ( Credit Agreement ) with a syndicate of banks. Commitments under the
Credit Agreement can be increased pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500 million. The Credit Agreement is
maintained for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance
of commercial paper, and replaces the previous $2,800 million five year credit
agreement dated May 14, 2007 ( Prior Agreement ). At December 31, 2011, there
were no borrowings or letters of credit issued under the credit facility. The
credit facility does not restrict Honeywell s ability to pay dividends, nor
does it contain financial covenants.   

            In
the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company repaid $500 million of its 6.125% notes
at maturity. The repayment was funded with cash provided by operating
activities.   

            We
monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash
equivalents on a daily basis. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal
and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. We diversify our cash and
cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these
entities.  

            Global
economic conditions or a tightening of credit markets could adversely affect
our customers  or suppliers  ability to obtain financing, particularly in our
long-cycle businesses and airline and automotive end markets. Customer or
supplier bankruptcies, delays in their ability to obtain financing, or the
unavailability of financing could adversely affect our cash flow or results of
operations. To date we have not experienced material impacts from customer or
supplier bankruptcy or liquidity issues. We continue to monitor and take
measures to limit our exposure.   

  44  

In
February 2011, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to a
total of $3 billion of Honeywell common stock. During 2011, the Company
repurchased $1,085 million of outstanding shares to offset the dilutive impact
of employee stock based compensation plans, including future option exercises,
restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans (see
Part II, Item 5 for share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2011).   

            In
July 2011, the Company sold its Consumer Products Group business (CPG) to Rank
Group Limited. The sale was completed for approximately $955 million in cash
proceeds, resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $301 million and a pproximately $178 million net of   tax. The gain was recorded in net
income from discontinued operations after taxes in the Company s Consolidated
Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. The net income
attributable to the non-controlling interest for the discontinued operations is
insignificant. The sale of CPG, which had been part of the Transportation
Systems segment, is consistent with the Company s strategic focus on its
portfolio of differentiated global technologies. See Acquisitions and
Divestitures in Note 2 to the financial statements for further discussion.   

            In
August 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of EMS, a leading provider
of connectivity solutions for mobile networking, rugged mobile computers and
satellite communications. The aggregate value, net of cash acquired, was
approximately $513 million. See Acquisitions and Divestitures in Note 2 to the
financial statements for further discussion.  

            In
December 2011, the Company acquired King s Safetywear Limited (KSW), a leading
international provider of branded safety footwear. The aggregate value, net of
cash acquired, was approximately $331 million (including the assumption of debt
of $33 million). See Acquisitions and Divestitures in Note 2 to the financial
statements for further discussion.  

            During
2011, the Company made voluntary cash contributions to its U.S. pension plans
of $1,650 million to improve the funded status of our plans.   

            In
addition to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash
requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends,
employee benefit obligations, environmental remediation costs, asbestos claims,
severance and exit costs related to repositioning actions, share repurchases
and any strategic acquisitions.  

            Specifically,
we expect our primary cash requirements in 2012 to be as follows:  

Capital expenditures we expect to spend approximately $1.1 billion
for capital expenditures in 2012 primarily for growth, production and
capacity expansion, cost reduction, maintenance, and replacement.  

Share repurchases  Under the Company s previously reported $3 billion
share repurchase program, $1.9 billion remained available as of December 31,
2011 for additional share repurchases. Honeywell presently expects to
repurchase outstanding shares from time to time during 2012 to offset the
dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including future
option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under
our savings plans. The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary
depending on market conditions and the level of operating, financing and
other investing activities.   

Dividends we expect to pay approximately $1.2 billion in dividends on
our common stock in 2012, reflecting the 12 percent increase in the dividend
rate effective with the fourth quarter 2011 dividend.  

Asbestos claims we expect our cash spending for asbestos claims and
our cash receipts for related insurance recoveries to be approximately $240
and $75 million, respectively, in 2012. See Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to the
financial statements for further discussion of possible funding obligations
in 2012 related to the Narco Trust.  

Pension contributions In 2012, we plan to make cash contributions of
$800 million to $1 billion ($250 million was made in January 2012) to our
plans to improve the funded status of the plans. These contributions
principally consist of voluntary contributions to our U.S. plans. The timing
and amount of contributions may be impacted by a number of factors, including
the funded status of the plans.  

Repositioning actions we expect that cash spending for severance and
other exit costs necessary to execute the previously announced repositioning
actions will approximate $150 million in 2012.  

45  

Environmental remediation costs we expect to spend approximately $300
million in 2012 for remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs. See
Environmental Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for additional
information.  

We
continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as
to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order
to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify business units that will most
benefit from increased investment. We identify acquisition candidates that will
further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also
identify businesses that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on
their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These
businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other
repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints. In 2011 we realized
$1,156 million in cash proceeds from sales of non-strategic businesses.  

            Based
on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating
cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Our
available cash, committed credit lines, access to the public debt and equity
markets as well as our ability to sell trade accounts receivables, provide
additional sources of short-term and long-term liquidity to fund current
operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities.   

   Contractual Obligations and Probable
Liability Payments   

            Following
is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability
payments at December 31, 2011:  

(1)  

Assumes all long-term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity.  

(2)  

Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the
normal course of business and are consistent with our expected requirements.  

(3)  

The payment amounts in the table only reflect the environmental
liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31,
2011. See Environmental Matters in Note 21 to the financial statements for
additional information.  

(4)  

These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for
NARCO and Bendix based on our asbestos related liabilities which are probable
and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2011. Except for amounts due upon
the effective date of the NARCO Plan of Reorganization ($76 million), we have
assumed funding for the NARCO Trust will occur in 2013 and beyond. Projecting
the timing of NARCO payments is dependent on, among other things, the
effective date of the Trust which could cause the timing of payments to be
earlier or later than that projected. Projecting future events is subject to
many uncertainties that could cause asbestos liabilities to be higher or
lower than those projected and recorded. See Asbestos Matters in Note 21 to
the financial statements for additional information.  

(5)  

These amounts represent our insurance recoveries that are deemed
probable for asbestos related liabilities as of December 31, 2011. The timing
of insurance recoveries are impacted by the terms of insurance settlement
agreements, as well as the documentation, review and collection process
required to collect on   

46  

insurance claims. Where probable insurance recoveries are not subject
to definitive settlement agreements with specified payment dates, but instead
are covered by insurance policies, we have assumed collection will occur
beyond 2016. Projecting the timing of insurance recoveries is subject to many
uncertainties that could cause the amounts collected to be higher or lower
than those projected and recorded or could cause the timing of collections to
be earlier or later than that projected. We reevaluate our projections
concerning insurance recoveries in light of any changes or developments that
would impact recoveries or the timing thereof. See Asbestos Matters in Note
21 to the financial statements for additional information.  

(6)  

The table excludes $815 million of uncertain tax positions. See Note
6 to the financial statements.  

The
table also excludes our pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB)
obligations. In 2012, we plan to make cash contributions of $800 million to $1
billion ($250 million was made in January 2012) to our plans to improve the
funded status of the plans. These contributions principally consist of
voluntary contributions to our U.S. plans. The timing and amount of
contributions may be impacted by a number of factors, including the funded
status of the plans. Beyond 2012, the actual amounts required to be contributed
are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset
returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory actions related to pension
funding obligations. Payments due under our OPEB plans are not required to be
funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree
populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree
medical benefits under our plans. We expect our OPEB payments to approximate
$167 million in 2012 net of the benefit of approximately $13 million from the
Medicare prescription subsidy. See Note 22 to the financial statements for
further discussion of our pension and OPEB plans.  

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

            Following
is a summary of our off-balance sheet arrangements:  

              Guarantees   We have
issued or are a party to the following direct and indirect guarantees at
December 31, 2011:  

Maximum Potential Future Payments   

Operating lease residual values  

$  

43  

Other third parties  financing  

5  

Unconsolidated affiliates  financing  

12  

Customer financing  

13  

$  

73  

We
do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  

            In
connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have
indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of
environmental contamination, if any, existing on the date of disposition. Such
expected costs are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial
efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.  

   Environmental Matters   

            We
are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government
requirements relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as
a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed
to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and
that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous substances are in
accordance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly
because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like
other companies engaged in similar businesses, have incurred remedial response
and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits
and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past
production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits,
claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to
arise in the future.  

  47  

With
respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually
conduct studies, individually o r   jointly, with other potentially
responsible parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial
techniques to address environmental matters. It is our policy (see Note 1 to
the financial statements) to record appropriate liabilities for environmental
matters when remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the costs
can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of
the undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. The
recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress
or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Given the
uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement policies,
the impact of other potentially responsible parties, technology and information
related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to develop an
estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental loss in excess of
our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund expenditures for these matters from
operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a number of
factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation
liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of
cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial techniques to be
utilized and agreements with other parties.   

            Remedial
response and voluntary cleanup costs charged against pretax earnings were $240,
$225 and $151 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31,
2011 and 2010, the recorded liabilities for environmental matters was $723 and
$753 million, respectively. In addition, in 2011 and 2010 we incurred operating
costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $102 and $86 million,
respectively, relating to compliance with environmental regulations.  

            Remedial
response and voluntary cleanup payments were $270, $266 and $318 million in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are currently estimated to be
approximately $300 million in 2012. We expect to fund such expenditures from
operating cash flow.  

            Although
we do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of studies,
litigation or settlements, and neither the timing nor the amount of the
ultimate costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they
could be material to our consolidated results of operations or operating cash
flows in the periods recognized or paid. However, considering our past
experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that environmental matters
will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.  

            See
Note 21 to the financial statements for a discussion of our commitments and
contingencies, including those related to environmental matters and toxic tort
litigation.  

   Financial Instruments   

            As
a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to
market risks from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates and
commodity prices, which may adversely affect our operating results and
financial position. We minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency
exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations through our normal operating and
financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of
derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial
instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and do not use leveraged
derivative financial instruments. A summary of our accounting policies for
derivative financial instruments is included in Note 1 to the financial
statements. We also hold investments in marketable equity securities, which
exposes us to market volatility, as discussed in Note 16 to the financial
statements.  

            We
conduct our business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign
currencies. Our exposure to market risk from changes in foreign currency
exchange rates arises from international financing activities between
subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and
anticipated transactions arising from international trade. Our objective is to
preserve the economic value of non-functional currency cash flows. We attempt
to hedge transaction exposures with natural offsets to the fullest extent
possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign
currency forward and option agreements with third parties. Our principal
currency exposures relate to the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound, Canadian
dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Mexican peso, Swiss franc, Czech koruna, Chinese
renminbi, Indian rupee, Singapore dollar, Swedish krona, Korean won and Thai
baht.  

            Our
exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates relates primarily to our
net debt and pension obligations. As described in Notes 14 and 16 to the
financial statements, we issue both fixed and variable rate debt and use
interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate movements and
reduce overall borrowing costs.  

  48  

Financial
instruments, including derivatives, expose us to counterparty credit risk for
nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest or currency
exchange rates. We manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through
specific minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and
procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our counterparties are
substantial investment and commercial banks with significant experience using
such derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair
value and expected future cash flows of our derivative and other financial
instruments considering reasonably possible changes in interest and currency
exchange rates and restrict the use of derivative financial instruments to
hedging activities.  

            The
following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest
rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate
one-percentage-point increase in interest rates across all maturities, the
potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments
based on a 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar versus local currency
exchange rates across all maturities, and the potential change in fair value of
contracts hedging commodity purchases based on a 20 percent decrease in the
price of the underlying commodity across all maturities at December 31, 2011
and 2010.  

(1)  

Asset or
 (liability).  

(2)  

Changes in the
 fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts are offset by changes in
 the fair value or cash flows of underlying hedged foreign currency
 transactions.  

(3)  

Changes in the
 fair value of forward commodity contracts are offset by changes in the cash
 flows of underlying hedged commodity transactions.  

The above
discussion of our procedures to monitor market risk and the estimated changes
in fair value resulting from our sensitivity analyses are forward-looking
statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results
due to actual developments in the global financial markets. The methods used by
us to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered
projections of future events.  

  49  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
POLICIES   

            The
preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and
application of accounting policies that require us to make significant
estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently
uncertain. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical
to the understanding of our financial statements. Actual results could differ
from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material
to our consolidated financial statements.  

            We have
discussed the selection, application and disclosure of these critical
accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our
Independent Registered Public Accountants. New accounting standards effective
in 2011 which had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements
are described in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements section in Note 1 to the
financial statements.  

              Contingent Liabilities    We are subject to a number of
lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar
amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our global business operations or
those of previously owned entities, including matters relating to commercial
transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos),
prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual
property, and environmental, health and safety matters. We recognize a
liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably
estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or
outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of
probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies
based on a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal
counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making
judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental
matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future
asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most
contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in
the future due to new developments (including new discovery of facts, changes
in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system),
changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. For a discussion
of our contingencies related to environmental, asbestos and other matters,
including management s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of
specific liabilities, see Notes 1 and 21 to the financial statements.   

              Asbestos Related Contingencies and Insurance
Recoveries    We are a defendant in personal injury actions
related to products containing asbestos (refractory and friction products). We
recognize a liability for any asbestos related contingency that is probable of
occurrence and reasonably estimable. Regarding North American Refractories
Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we accrued for pending claims based on
terms and conditions in agreements with NARCO, its former parent
company, and certain asbestos claimants, and an estimate of the unsettled
claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection. We also
accrued for the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos related claims
expected to be asserted against the NARCO trust through 2018 as described in
Note 21 to the financial statements. In light of the inherent uncertainties in
making long term projections and in connection with the initial operation of a
524(g) trust, as well as the stay of all NARCO asbestos claims since January
2002, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating NARCO
asbestos claims beyond 2018. Regarding Bendix asbestos related claims, we accrued
for the estimated value of pending claims using average resolution values for
the previous five years. We also accrued for the estimated value of future
anticipated claims related to Bendix for the next five years based on historic
claims filing experience and dismissal rates, disease classifications, and
average resolution values in the tort system for the previous five years. In light of
the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections, as well as certain
factors unique to friction product asbestos claims, we do not believe that we
have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims beyond the next five
years. We will continue to update the resolution values used to estimate the
cost of pending and future Bendix claims during the fourth quarter each year.
For additional information see Note 21 to the financial statements. We
continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our
contingencies, as well as potential ranges of probable losses and recognize a
liability, if any, for these contingencies based on an analysis of each
individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if
applicable, other experts.   

            In
connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we
record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In
assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning
insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our
historical experience with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent
solvency issues surrounding insurers, various judicial determinations relevant
to our insurance programs and our consideration of the impacts of any
settlements with our insurers. Our insurance is with both the domestic insurance
market and the London excess market. While the substantial majority of our
insurance carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent,
which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. Projecting
future events is subject to   

  50  

various uncertainties that could cause the insurance recovery on
asbestos related liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and
recorded. Given the inherent uncertainty in making future projections, we
reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries in
light of any changes to the projected liability, our recovery experience or
other relevant factors that may impact future insurance recoveries. See Note 21
to the financial statements for a discussion of management s judgments applied
in the recognition and measurement of insurance recoveries for asbestos related
liabilities.  

              Defined Benefit Pension Plans       We sponsor both funded and
unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering the majority
of our employees and retirees.    

            We
recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or
losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of
plan assets or the plans  projected benefit obligation (the corridor) annually
in the fourth quarter each year (MTM Adjustment). Net  actuarial gains and losses occur
when the actual experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to
value our pension plans or when assumptions change as they may each year. The
primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the
discount rate used to value pension obligations as of the measurement date each
year and the differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets.   This
accounting method also results in the potential for volatile and difficult to
forecast MTM adjustments. MTM adjustments were $1,802, $471 and $741 million in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining components of pension expense,
primarily service and interest costs and assumed return on plan assets, are
recorded on a quarterly basis (On-going Pension Expense).    

            For
financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension expense is calculated based
upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan
obligations and an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We
determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets utilizing
historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with our
expectations on future market conditions and asset mix considerations (see Note
22 to the financial statements for details on the actual various asset classes
and targeted asset allocation percentages for our pension plans). The discount
rate reflects the market rate on December 31 (measurement date) for
high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to our
benefit obligations and is subject to change each year. Further information on
all our major actuarial assumptions is included in Note 22 to the financial
statements.  

            The key
assumptions used in developing our 2011, 2010 and 2009  net periodic pension expense for
our U.S. plans included the following:   

The
discount rate can be volatile from year to year because it is determined based
upon prevailing interest rates as of the measurement date. We will use a 4.89
percent discount rate in 2012, reflecting the decrease in the market interest
rate environment since December 31, 2010. We plan to continue to use an
expected rate of return on plan assets of 8 percent for 2012 as this is a
long-term rate based on historical plan asset returns over varying long-term
periods combined with our expectations on future market conditions and the
asset mix of the plan s investments.   

            In addition
to the potential for MTM adjustments, changes in our expected rate of return on
plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events also affects
future on-going pension expense. The following table highlights the sensitivity
of our U.S. pension obligations and on-going expense to changes in these
assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant. These estimates
exclude any potential MTM adjustment:  

  51  

Change in
 Assumption   

Impact on 2012   
  On-Going  
  Pension
 Expense    

Impact on PBO   

0.25 percentage point decrease in discount rate  

Decrease $10 million  

Increase $410 million  

0.25 percentage point increase in discount rate  

Increase $8 million  

Decrease $400 million  

0.25 percentage point decrease in expected rate of return on assets  

Increase $32 million  

0.25 percentage point increase in expected rate of return on assets  

Decrease $32 million  

On-going
pension expense for all of our pension plans is expected to be approximately
$60 million in 2012, a decrease of $45 million from 2011, due primarily to the
impact of planned cash contributions in 2012. Also, if required, an MTM
adjustment will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012 in accordance with
our pension accounting method as previously described. It is difficult to
reliably forecast or predict whether there will be a MTM adjustment in 2012,
and if one is required what the magnitude of such adjustment will be. MTM
adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond the control
of the Company such as changes in interest rates and the performance of the
financial markets.   

            In 2011,
2010 and 2009, 
we were not required to make contributions to satisfy minimum statutory funding
requirements in our U.S. pension plans. However, we made voluntary
contributions of $1,650, $1,000 and $740 million to our U.S. pension plans in   2011, 2010
and 2009  ,
respectively, primarily to improve the funded status of our plans which has
been adversely impacted by relatively low discount rates and asset losses in
2011 and 2008 resulting from the poor performance of the equity markets. In
2012, we plan to make cash contributions of $800 million to $1 billion   ($250
million was made in January 2012)   to our plans to improve the funded status of the
plans. These contributions principally consist of voluntary contributions to
our U.S. plans.   The timing and amount of contributions may be
impacted by a number of factors, including the funded status of the plans.   

                Long-Lived
Assets (including Tangible and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets)     To conduct our global business
operations and execute our business strategy, we acquire tangible and
intangible assets, including property, plant and equipment and definite-lived
intangible assets. At December 31, 2011, the net carrying amount of these
long-lived assets totaled approximately $6.5 billion. The determination of
useful lives (for depreciation/amortization purposes) and whether or not these
assets are impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions,
changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating
performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We
periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our
long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be fully recoverable. The
principal factors we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review
are as follows:    

significant
 under-performance (i.e., declines in sales, earnings or cash flows) of a
 business or product line in relation to expectations;   

annual operating
 plans or five-year strategic plans that indicate an unfavorable trend in
 operating performance of a business or product line;   

significant
 negative industry or economic trends; and   

significant
 changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.  

Once it is
determined that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is
measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to
be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the
carrying amount of the asset grouping and its fair value. We endeavor to
utilize the best information available to measure fair value, which is usually
either market prices (if available), level 1 or level 2 in the fair value
hierarchy or an estimate of the future discounted cash flow, level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy. The key estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis
include expected industry growth rates, our assumptions as to volume, selling
prices and costs, and the discount rate selected. As described in more detail
in Note 16 to the financial statements, we have recorded impairment charges
related to long-lived assets of $127 million and $30 million in 2011 and 2010,
respectively, principally related to manufacturing plant and equipment in
facilities scheduled to close or be downsized.  

  52  

Goodwill
Impairment Testing   Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs
over the fair value of the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible
assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is
subject to impairment testing. Our Goodwill balance, $11.9 billion as of
December 31, 2011, is subject to impairment testing annually as of
March 31, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. This testing compares carrying
values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value is reduced to
fair value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated utilizing a
discounted cash flow approach utilizing cash flow forecasts in our five year
strategic and annual operating plans adjusted for terminal value assumptions.
This impairment test involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions,
changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating
performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. To
address this uncertainty we perform sensitivity analysis on key estimates and
assumptions.   

            We
completed our annual impairment test as of March 31, 2011 and determined that
there was no impairment as of that date. However, significant negative industry
or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes
or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization
declines may have a negative effect on the fair value of our reporting units.   

              Income Taxes   Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
the difference between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the
differences are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on
domestic and international statutory income tax rates in the jurisdictions in
which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax
provisions as well as deferred tax asset and liability balances, including the
estimation of valuation allowances and the evaluation of tax positions.  

            As
of December 31, 2011, we recognized a net deferred tax asset of $2,421 million,
less a valuation allowance of $591 million. Net deferred tax assets are
primarily comprised of net deductible temporary differences, net operating loss
carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce taxable
income in future periods. The determination of the amount of valuation
allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates
regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary
differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax
planning strategies. A valuation allowance is established to offset any
deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence it is more likely
than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In
assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available
positive and negative evidence, including past operating results, projections
of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning
strategies. The projections of future taxable income include a number of
estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs.
Additionally, valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be
impacted by changes to tax laws.  

            Our
net deferred tax asset of $2,421 million consists of $1,516 million related to
U.S. operations and $905 million related to non-U.S. operations. The U.S. net
deferred tax asset of $1,516 million consists of net deductible temporary
differences, tax credit carryforwards, federal and state tax net operating
losses which we believe will more likely than not be realized through the
generation of future taxable income in the U.S. and tax planning strategies. We
maintain a valuation allowance of $5 million against such asset related to
state net operating losses. The non-U.S. net deferred tax asset of $905 million
consists principally of net operating and capital loss carryforwards, mainly in
France, Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany. We maintain a valuation allowance
of $588 million against these deferred tax assets reflecting our historical
experience and lower expectations of taxable income over the applicable carryforward
periods. As more fully described in Note 6 to the financial statements, our
valuation allowance decreased by $45 million in 2011 and increased by $58
million and $133 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the event we
determine that we will not be able to realize our net deferred tax assets in
the future, we will reduce such amounts through a charge to income in the
period such determination is made. Conversely, if we determine that we will be
able to realize net deferred tax assets in excess of the carrying amounts, we
will decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a credit to income in
the period that such determination is made.  

            Significant
judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax
positions. We establish additional reserves for income taxes when, despite the
belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain positions
that do not meet the minimum recognition threshold. The approach for evaluating
certain and uncertain tax positions is defined by the authoritative guidance
and this guidance determines when a tax position is more likely than not to be
sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. In the normal
course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are examined by various
Federal, State and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential
outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or
prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We
continually   

  53  

assess the
likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax
provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which
the facts that give rise to a revision become known.  

              Sales
Recognition on Long-Term Contracts   In 2011, we recognized
approximately 16 percent of our total net sales using the
percentage-of-completion method for long-term contracts in our Automation and
Control Solutions, Aerospace and Performance Materials and Technologies
segments. These long-term contracts are measured on the cost-to-cost basis for
engineering-type contracts and the units-of-delivery basis for production-type
contracts. Accounting for these contracts involves management judgment in estimating
total contract revenue and cost. Contract revenues are largely determined by
negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions
regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions
associated with technical performance and price adjustment clauses (such as
inflation or index-based clauses). Contract costs are incurred over a period of
time, which can be several years, and the estimation of these costs requires
management judgment. Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or
estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other
economic projections. Significant factors that influence these estimates
include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and
subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset
utilization, and anticipated labor agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are
regularly monitored and revised based on changes in circumstances. Anticipated
losses on long-term contracts are recognized when such losses become evident.
We maintain financial controls over the customer qualification, contract
pricing and estimation processes to reduce the risk of contract losses.  

  54  

OTHER
MATTERS   

   Litigation   

            See
Note 21 to the financial statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos
and other litigation matters.  

   Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

            See
Note 1 to the financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting
pronouncements.  

   Item 7A. Q  uantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

            Information
relating to market risk is included in Item 7. Management Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption
 Financial Instruments .  

  55  

ITEM 8.
F  inancial Statements and Supplementary Data     

   H  oneywell International
Inc.   
  Consolidated Statement of Operations   

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement.  

  56  

H  oneywell International
Inc.   
  Consolidated Balance Sheet   

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement.  

  57  

Honeywell International Inc.  
   C  onsolidated
Statement of Cash Flows    

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement.  

  58  

Honeywell International Inc. 
   C  onsolidated
Statement of Shareowners  Equity    

The Notes to Financial
Statements are integral part of this statement.  

  59  

N  ote 1. Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies    

              Accounting Principles    The
financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The
following is a description of Honeywell s significant accounting policies..   

                 Principles of
Consolidation     The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Honeywell International Inc. and all of its subsidiaries and
entities in which a controlling interest is maintained. Our consolidation
policy requires equity investments that we exercise significant influence over
but do not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary of the
investee s activities to be accounted for using the equity method. Investments
through which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the
investee and which we do not have readily determinable fair values are
accounted for under the cost method. All intercompany transactions and balances
are eliminated in consolidation.   

            The
Consumer Products Group (CPG) automotive aftermarket business had historically
been part of the Transportation Systems reportable segment. In accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, CPG is presented as discontinued
operations in all periods presented. See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures
for further details.  

                 Cash and Cash
Equivalents     Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and
on deposit and highly liquid, temporary cash investments with an original
maturity of three months or less.   

                 Inventories     Inventories
are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out or the
average cost method and the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for certain
qualifying domestic inventories.   

                 Investments     Investments
in affiliates over which we have a significant influence, but not a controlling
interest, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Other
investments are carried at market value, if readily determinable, or at cost.
All equity investments are periodically reviewed to determine if declines in
fair value below cost basis are other-than-temporary. Significant and sustained
decreases in quoted market prices or a series of historic and projected
operating losses by investees are strong indicators of other-than-temporary
declines. If the decline in fair value is determined to be
other-than-temporary, an impairment loss is recorded and the investment is
written down to a new carrying value.   

                 Property, Plant
and Equipment     Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost,
including any asset retirement obligations, less accumulated depreciation. For
financial reporting, the straight-line method of depreciation is used over the
estimated useful lives of 10 to 50 years for buildings and improvements and 2
to 16 years for machinery and equipment. Recognition of the fair value of
obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets is
required when there is a legal obligation to incur such costs. Upon initial
recognition of a liability, the cost is capitalized as part of the related
long-lived asset and depreciated over the corresponding asset s useful life.
See Note 11 and Note 17 for additional details.   

                 Goodwill and
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets     Goodwill represents the
excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of tangible net assets and
identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and certain
other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized.
Intangible assets determined to have definite lives are amortized over their
useful lives. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to
impairment testing annually as of March 31, or whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
This testing compares carrying values to fair values and, when appropriate, the
carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value. We completed our
annual goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2011 and determined that there
was no impairment as of that date. See Note 12 for additional details on
goodwill balances.   

                 Other Intangible
Assets with Determinable Lives     Other intangible assets
with determinable lives consist of customer lists, technology, patents and
trademarks and other intangibles and are amortized over their estimated useful
lives, ranging from 2 to 24 years.   

                 Long-Lived Assets     We
periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of long-lived
assets (including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with
determinable lives) whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. We evaluate
events or changes in circumstances based on a number of factors including
operating results, business plans and forecasts, general and industry trends
and, economic projections and anticipated cash flows. An impairment is assessed
when the undiscounted expected future cash flows derived from an asset are less
than its carrying amount. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which
the carrying value of an asset exceeds its fair value and are recognized in
earnings. We also continually evaluate the estimated useful lives of all
long-lived assets and periodically revise such estimates based on current
events.   

  60  

Sales Recognition     Product
and service sales are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, product delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, pricing
is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Service sales,
principally representing repair, maintenance and engineering activities in our
Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions segments, are recognized over
the contractual period or as services are rendered. Sales under long-term
contracts in the Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions segments are
recorded on a percentage-of-completion method measured on the cost-to-cost
basis for engineering-type contracts and the units-of-delivery basis for
production-type contracts. Provisions for anticipated losses on long-term
contracts are recorded in full when such losses become evident. Revenues from
contracts with multiple element arrangements are recognized as each element is
earned based on the relative fair value of each element provided the delivered
elements have value to customers on a standalone basis. Amounts allocated to
each element are based on its objectively determined fair value, such as the
sales price for the product or service when it is sold separately or competitor
prices for similar products or services.   

                 Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts     We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses as a result of customer s inability to make required payments.
We estimate anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on days past due,
as measured from the contractual due date, historical collection history and
incorporate changes in economic conditions that may not be reflected in
historical trends for example, customers in bankruptcy, liquidation or
reorganization. Receivables are written-off against the allowance for doubtful
accounts when they are determined uncollectible. Such determination includes
analysis and consideration of the particular conditions of the account,
including time intervals since last collection, success of outside collection
agencies activity, solvency of customer and any bankruptcy proceedings.   

                 Environmental
Expenditures     Environmental expenditures that relate to current
operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. Expenditures that relate
to an existing condition caused by past operations, and that do not provide
future benefits, are expensed as incurred. Liabilities are recorded when
environmental remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the
costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best
estimate of the undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial
work. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts
progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal information becomes
available. Given the uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations,
enforcement policies, the impact of other potentially responsible parties,
technology and information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is
possible to develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible
environmental loss in excess of our recorded liabilities.   

Asbestos Related Contingencies and Insurance Recoveries   Honeywell
is a defendant in personal injury actions related to products containing asbestos
(refractory and friction products). We recognize a liability for any asbestos
related contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.
Regarding North American Refractories Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims,
we accrued for pending claims based on terms and conditions in  agreements
with NARCO, its former parent company, and certain asbestos claimants, and an
estimate of the unsettled claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for
bankruptcy protection. We also accrued for the estimated value of future NARCO
asbestos related claims expected to be asserted against the NARCO Trust through
2018 as described in Note 21. In light of the inherent uncertainties
in making long term projections and in connection with the initial operation
of a 524(g) trust, as well as the stay of all NARCO asbestos claims since January
2002, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating NARCO
asbestos claims beyond 2018. Regarding Bendix asbestos related claims, we
accrued for the estimated value of pending claims using average resolution
values for the previous five years. We also accrued for the estimated value of
future anticipated claims related to Bendix for the next five years based on
historic claims filing experience and dismissal rates, disease classifications,
and average resolution values in the tort system for the previous five years. In light
of the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections, as well as
certain factors unique to friction product asbestos claims, we do not believe
that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims beyond the next
five years. We will continue to update the resolution values used to estimate
the cost of pending and future Bendix claims during the fourth quarter each
year. For additional information see Note 21. We continually assess the
likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well
as potential ranges of probable losses and recognize a liability, if any, for
these contingencies based on an analysis of each individual issue with the
assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts.  

            In
connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we
record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In
assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning
insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our
historical experience with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent
solvency issues surrounding insurers, various judicial determinations relevant
to our insurance programs and our consideration of the impacts of any
settlements with our insurers.  

  61  

Aerospace
Sales Incentives    We provide sales incentives to commercial aircraft
manufacturers and airlines in connection with their selection of our aircraft
equipment, predominately wheel and braking system hardware and auxiliary power
units, for installation on commercial aircraft. These incentives principally
consist of free or deeply discounted products, but also include credits for
future purchases of product and upfront cash payments. These costs are
recognized in the period incurred as cost of products sold or as a reduction to
sales, as appropriate. For aircraft manufacturers, incentives are recorded when
the products are delivered; for airlines, incentives are recorded when the
associated aircraft are delivered by the aircraft manufacturer to the airline.   

              Research
and Development    Research and development costs for company-sponsored
research and development projects are expensed as incurred. Such costs are
principally included in Cost of Products Sold and were $1,799, $1,450 and $1,321
million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

              Stock-Based
Compensation Plans    The principal awards issued under our stock-based
compensation plans, which are described in Note 20, include non-qualified stock
options and restricted stock units (RSUs). The cost for such awards is measured
at the grant date based on the fair value of the award. The value of the
portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as
expense over the requisite service periods (generally the vesting period of the
equity award) and is included in selling, general and administrative expense in
our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Forfeitures are required to be
estimated at the time of grant in order to estimate the portion of the award
that will ultimately vest. The estimate is based on our historical rates of
forfeiture.   

              Pension
Benefits    We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit
pension plans covering the majority of our employees and retirees. We recognize
changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in
excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets
or the plans  projected benefit obligation (the corridor) annually in the
fourth quarter each year (MTM Adjustment). The remaining components of pension
expense, primarily service and interest costs and assumed return on plan
assets, are recorded on a quarterly basis (On-going Pension Expense).    

              Foreign
Currency Translation    Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating
outside the United States with a functional currency other than U.S. dollars
are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end exchange rates. Sales, costs
and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the
year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component
of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). For subsidiaries operating in
highly inflationary environments, inventories and property, plant and
equipment, including related expenses, are remeasured at the exchange rate in
effect on the date the assets were acquired, while monetary assets and
liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement
adjustments for these subsidiaries are included in earnings.   

              Derivative
Financial Instruments    As a result of our global operating and financing
activities, we are exposed to market risks from changes in interest and foreign
currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our
operating results and financial position. We minimize our risks from interest
and foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations through our
normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate through
the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments
are used to manage risk and are not used for trading or other speculative
purposes and we do not use leveraged derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes must be designated
and effective as a hedge of the identified risk exposure at the inception of
the contract. Accordingly, changes in fair value of the derivative contract
must be highly correlated with changes in fair value of the underlying hedged item
at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.   

            All
derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities and
measured at fair value. For derivatives designated as hedges of the fair value
of assets or liabilities, the changes in fair values of both the derivatives
and the hedged items are recorded in current earnings. For derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair
value of the derivatives are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
(Loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged items impact
earnings. Cash flows of such derivative financial instruments are classified
consistent with the underlying hedged item.  

              Transfers
of Financial Instruments    Sales, transfers and securitization of financial
instruments are accounted for under authoritative guidance for the transfers
and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities.    

            We sell
interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties.
The terms of the trade accounts receivable program permit the repurchase of
receivables from the third parties at our discretion. As a   

  62  

result, these program receivables are not accounted for as a sale and
remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a corresponding amount recorded
as either Short-term borrowings or Long-term debt.   

            At times we
also transfer trade and other receivables that qualify as a sale and are thus
are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the time they are sold. The
value assigned to any subordinated interests and undivided interests retained
in receivables sold is based on the relative fair values of the interests
retained and sold. The carrying value of the retained interests approximates
fair value due to the short-term nature of the collection period for the
receivables.  

              Income
Taxes    Deferred tax liabilities or assets reflect temporary differences
between amounts of assets and liabilities for financial and tax reporting. Such
amounts are adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect changes in tax rates expected
to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance
is established to offset any deferred tax assets if, based upon the available
evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The determination of the amount of a valuation
allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates
regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary
differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax
planning strategies. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we
consider all available positive and negative evidence, including past operating
results, projections of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing
tax planning strategies. The projections of future taxable income include a
number of estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs. Additionally,
valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes
to tax laws.   

            Significant
judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax
positions. We establish additional reserves for income taxes when, despite the
belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain positions
that do not meet the minimum recognition threshold. The approach for evaluating
certain and uncertain tax positions is defined by the authoritative guidance
and this guidance determines when a tax position is more likely than not to be
sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. In the normal
course of business, the tax filings of the Company and its subsidiaries are
examined by various Federal, State and foreign tax authorities. We regularly
assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations
for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for
income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential
adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and
deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision
become known.  

              Earnings
Per Share    Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding and all dilutive potential common
shares outstanding.   

              Use
of Estimates    The preparation of consolidated financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the
financial statements and related disclosures in the accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. Estimates and assumptions are
periodically reviewed and the effects of revisions are reflected in the
consolidated financial statements in the period they are determined to be necessary.   

              Reclassifications    Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.   

              Recent
Accounting Pronouncements    Changes to accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) are established by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting standards updates
(ASU s) to the FASB s Accounting Standards Codification.

The Company
considers the applicability and impact of all ASU s. ASU s not listed below
were assessed and determined to be either not applicable or are expected to
have minimal impact on our consolidated financial position and results of
operations.   

            In May
2011, the FASB issued amendments to disclosure requirements for common fair
value measurement. These amendments, effective for the interim and annual
periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011 (early adoption is prohibited),
result in common definition of fair value and common requirements for measurement
of and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. Consequently, the
amendments change some fair value measurement principles and disclosure
requirements. The implementation of this amended accounting guidance is not
expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and
results of operations.   

  63  

In June
2011, the FASB issued amendments to disclosure requirements for presentation of
comprehensive income. This guidance, effective retrospectively for the interim
and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011 (early adoption is
permitted), requires presentation of total comprehensive
income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive
income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in
two separate but consecutive statements. In December 2011, the FASB issued an
amendment to defer the presentation on the face of the financial statements the
effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on
the components of net income and other comprehensive income for annual and
interim financial statements. The implementation of the two aforementioned
amendments is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position and results of operations.   

            In
September 2011, the FASB issued amendments to the goodwill impairment guidance
which provides an option for companies to use a qualitative approach to test
goodwill for impairment if certain conditions are met. The amendments are
effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011 (early adoption is permitted). The
implementation of amended accounting guidance is not expected to have a
material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of
operations.  

   Note 2. Acquisitions
and Divestitures   

             Acquisitions
    We
acquired businesses for an aggregate cost of $973, $1,303, and $468 million in
2011 2010 and 2009, respectively. For all of our acquisitions the acquired
businesses were recorded at their estimated fair values at the dates of
acquisition. Significant acquisitions made in these years are discussed below.   

            In December
2011, the Company acquired King s Safetywear Limited (KSW), a leading
international provider of branded safety footwear. The aggregate value, net of
cash acquired, was approximately $331 million (including the assumption of debt
of $33 million) and was allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets
acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the
acquisition date. On a preliminary basis, the Company has assigned
approximately $178 million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly
trademarks, technology, and customer relationships. The definite lived
intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated lives, using
straight-line and accelerated amortization methods. The value assigned to
trademarks of approximately $91 million is classified as indefinite lived
intangibles. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of
net assets acquired (approximately $163 million), was recorded as goodwill.
This goodwill arises primarily from the avoidance of the time and costs which
would be required (and the associated risks that would be encountered) to
enhance our product offerings to key target markets and serve as entry into new
and profitable segments, and the expected cost synergies that will be realized
through the consolidation of the acquired business into our Automation and
Control Solutions segment. Their cost synergies are expected to be realized
principally in the areas of selling, general and administrative expenses,
material sourcing and manufacturing. This goodwill is non deductible for tax
purposes.  

            The results
from the acquisition date through December 31, 2011 are included in the
Automation and Control Solutions segment and were not material to the
consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2011, the purchase accounting
for KSW is subject to final adjustment primarily for the valuation of
inventory, property, plant and equipment, useful lives of intangible assets,
amounts allocated to intangible assets and goodwill, tax balances, and for
certain pre-acquisition contingencies.  

            In August
2011, the Company acquired 100 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of
EMS Technologies, Inc. (EMS), a leading provider of connectivity solutions for
mobile networking, rugged mobile computers and satellite communications. EMS
had reported 2010 revenues of approximately $355 million.  

            The
aggregate value, net of cash acquired, was approximately $513 million and was
allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
date. On a preliminary basis, the Company has assigned approximately $119
million to identifiable intangible assets, of which approximately $89 million
and approximately $30 million were recorded within the Aerospace and Automation
and Control segments, respectively. The intangible assets are predominantly
customer relationships, existing technology and trademarks. These intangible
assets are being amortized over their estimated lives, using straight-line and
accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the purchase price over the
estimated fair values of net assets acquired (approximating $326 million), was
recorded as goodwill. This goodwill arises primarily from the avoidance of the
time and costs which would be required (and the   

  64  

associated risks that would be encountered) to enhance our product
offerings to key target markets and serve as entry into new and profitable
segments, and the expected cost synergies that will be realized through the consolidation
of the acquired business into our Aerospace and Automation and Control
Solutions segments. These cost synergies are expected to be realized
principally in the areas of selling, general and administrative expenses,
material sourcing and manufacturing. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax
purposes.   

            The results
from the acquisition date through December 31, 2011 are included in the
Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions segments and were not material
to the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2011, the purchase
accounting for EMS is subject to final adjustment primarily for the valuation
of inventory and property, plant and equipment, useful lives of intangible
assets, amounts allocated to intangible assets and goodwill, and for certain
pre-acquisition contingencies.  

            In October
2010, we completed the acquisition of the issued and outstanding shares of
Sperian Protection (Sperian), a French company that operates globally in the
personal protection equipment design and manufacturing industry. Sperian had
reported 2009 revenues of approximately $900 million.   

            The
aggregate value, net of cash acquired, was approximately $1,475 million
(including the assumption of approximately $326 million of outstanding debt)
and was allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
date.  

            The
following amounts represent the final determination of the fair value of the
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  

We
have assigned $539 million to intangible assets, predominantly customer
relationships, trade names, and technology. These intangible assets are being
amortized over their estimated lives which range from 3 to 20 years using straight
line and accelerated amortization methods.  Included in this amount, a value of
approximately $246 million has been assigned to trade names intangibles
determined to have indefinite lives. The excess
of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is
approximately $930 million and was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill arises
primarily from the avoidance of the time and costs which would be required (and
the associated risks that would be encountered) to develop a business with a
product offering and customer base comparable to Sperian and the expected cost
synergies that will be realized through the consolidation of the acquired
business into our Automations and Controls Solutions segment. These cost
synergies are expected to be realized principally in the areas of selling,
general and administrative expenses, material sourcing and manufacturing. This
goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. The results from the acquisition
date through December 31, 2010 are included in the Automation and Control
Solutions segment and were not material to the consolidated financial
statements.   

            In August
2009, the Company completed the acquisition of the RMG Group (RMG Regel +
Messtechnik GmbH), a natural gas measuring and control products, services and
integrated solutions company, for a purchase price of approximately $416
million, net of cash acquired. The purchase price for the acquisition was
allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
date. The Company has assigned $174 million to identifiable intangible assets,
predominantly customer relationships, existing technology and trademarks. These
intangible assets are being   

  65  

amortized over their estimated lives which range from 1 to 15 years
using straight-line and accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the
purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired
(approximating $225 million), was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is
non-deductible for tax purposes. The results from the acquisition date through
December 31, 2009 are included in the Automation and Control Solutions segment
and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.  

            In
connection with all acquisitions in 2011, 2010 and 2009, the amounts recorded
for transaction costs and the costs of integrating the acquired businesses into
Honeywell were not material.  

            The pro
forma results for 2011, 2010 and 2009, assuming these acquisitions had been
made at the beginning of the comparable prior year, would not be materially
different from consolidated reported results.  

             Divestitures   In July 2011, the Company sold its
Consumer Products Group business (CPG) to Rank Group Limited. The sale was
completed for approximately $955 million in cash proceeds, resulting in a
pre-tax gain of approximately $301 million and a  pproximately $178 million net of   tax. The gain was recorded in net income from
discontinued operations after taxes in the Company s Consolidated Statement of
Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. The net income attributable to
the non-controlling interest for the discontinued operations is insignificant.
The sale of CPG, which had been part of the Transportation Systems segment, is
consistent with the Company s strategic focus on its portfolio of
differentiated global technologies.   

            The key
components of income from discontinued operations related to CPG were as
follows:  

The
components of assets and liabilities classified as discontinued operations and
included in other current assets and other current liabilities related to the
CPG business consisted of the following:  

Note 3. Repositioning and Other Charges   

  66  

A summary
of repositioning and other charges follows:  

The
following table summarizes the pretax distribution of total net repositioning
and other charges by income statement classification:  

The
following table summarizes the pretax impact of total net repositioning and
other charges by segment:  

In
2011, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $380 million including
severance costs of $246 million related to workforce reductions of 3,188
manufacturing and administrative positions across all of our segments. The
workforce reductions were primarily related to the planned shutdown of a
manufacturing facility in our Transportation Systems segment, cost savings
actions taken in connection with our ongoing functional transformation and
productivity initiatives, factory transitions in connection with
acquisition-related synergies in our Automation and Control Solutions and
Aerospace segments, the exit from and/or rationalization of certain product
lines and markets in our Performance Materials and Technologies and Automation
and Control Solutions segments, the consolidation of repair facilities in our
Aerospace segment, and factory consolidations and/or rationalizations and
organizational realignments of businesses in our Automation and Control
Solutions segment. The repositioning charges included asset impairments of $86
million principally related to the write-off of certain intangible assets in
our Automation and Control Solutions segment due to a change in branding strategy
and manufacturing plant and equipment associated with the planned shutdown of a
manufacturing facility and the exit of a product line and a factory transition
as discussed above. The repositioning charges also included exit costs of $48
million principally for costs to terminate contracts related to the exit of a
market and product line and a factory transition as discussed above. Exit costs
also included closure obligations associated with the planned shutdown of a
manufacturing facility and exit of a product line also as discussed above.
Also, $26 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance
at our Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions segments, were returned
to income in 2011 due principally to fewer employee separations than originally
planned associated with prior severance programs.   

  67  

In
2010, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $179 million including
severance costs of $144 million related to workforce reductions of 2,781
manufacturing and administrative positions primarily in our Automation and
Control Solutions, Aerospace and Transportation Systems segments. The workforce
reductions were primarily related to the planned shutdown of certain
manufacturing facilities in our Automation and Control Solutions and
Transportation Systems segments, cost savings actions taken in connection with
our ongoing functional transformation and productivity initiatives, factory
transitions in our Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions and Performance
Materials and Technologies segments to more cost-effective locations, achieving
acquisition-related synergies in our Automation and Control Solutions segment,
and the exit and/or rationalization of certain product lines in our Performance
Materials and Technologies segment. The repositioning charge also included
asset impairments of $21 million principally related to manufacturing plant and
equipment associated with the exit and/or rationalization of certain product
lines and in facilities scheduled to close. Also, $30 million of previously
established accruals, primarily for severance at our Automation and Control
Solutions, Transportation Systems and Aerospace segments, were returned to
income in 2010 due to fewer employee separations than originally planned
associated with prior severance programs.  

            In
2009, we recognized repositioning charges totaling $213 million primarily for
severance costs related to workforce reductions of 4,145 manufacturing and
administrative positions mainly in our Automation and Control Solutions,
Transportation Systems and Aerospace segments. The workforce reductions were
primarily related to the adverse market conditions experienced by many of our
businesses, cost savings actions taken in connection with our ongoing
functional transformation initiative, the planned downsizing or shutdown of
certain manufacturing facilities, and organizational realignments of portions
of our Aerospace and Transportation Systems segments. Also, $53 million of
previously established accruals, primarily for severance at our Automation and
Control Solutions, Aerospace, and Transportation Systems segments, were
returned to income in 2009 due to fewer employee separations than originally
planned associated with prior severance programs and changes in the scope of
previously announced repositioning actions.  

            The
following table summarizes the status of our total repositioning reserves:  

(1) Relates to businesses
divested during 2009 included in Gain on Sale of Non-Strategic Businesses and
Assets see Note 4, Other (Income) Expense.   

            Certain
repositioning projects in our Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions and
Transportation Systems segments included exit or disposal activities, the costs
related to which will be recognized in future periods when the actual liability
is incurred. The nature of these exit or disposal costs includes asset set-up
and moving, product recertification and requalification, and employee
retention, training and travel. The following tables   

  68  

summarize by segment,
expected, incurred and remaining exit and disposal costs related to 2011 and
2010 repositioning actions which we were not able to recognize at the time the
actions were initiated.  

In
2011, we recognized a charge of $240 million for environmental liabilities
deemed probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized
asbestos related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $149 million.
Environmental and Asbestos matters are discussed in detail in Note 21,
Commitments and Contingencies.   

            In
2010, we recognized a charge of $212 million for environmental liabilities
deemed probable and reasonably  estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos
related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $175 million. We also
recognized other charges of $62 million in connection with the evaluation of
potential resolution of certain legal matters.   

            In 2009, we
recognized a charge of $145 million for environmental liabilities deemed
probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos
related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $155 million.  

   Note 4. Other (income) expense   

Gain
on sale of non-strategic businesses and assets for 2011 includes a $50 million
pre-tax gain, $31 million net of tax, related to the divestiture of the
automotive on-board sensor products business within our Automation and Control
Solutions segment.   

            Other,
net in 2011 includes a loss of $29 million resulting from early redemption of
debt in the first quarter of 2011. See Note 14 Long-term Debt and Credit
Agreements for further details.   

  69  

Other,
net for 2010 includes a $62 million pre-tax gain, $39 million net of tax,
related to the consolidation of a joint venture within our Performance
Materials and Technologies segment. The Company obtained control and the
ability to direct those activities most significant to the joint venture s
economic performance in the third quarter, resulting in consolidation.
Accordingly, we have i) recognized the assets and liabilities at fair value,
ii) included the results of operations in the consolidated financial statements
from the date of consolidation and iii) recognized the above noted gain
representing the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of our
previously held equity method investment. The Company has assigned $24 million
to intangibles, predominantly the joint venture s customer contracts. These
intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated lives using the
straight line method. The excess of the book value over the estimated fair
values of the net assets consolidated approximating $132 million, was recorded
as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. The results from
the consolidation date through December 31, 2010 are included in the
Performance Materials and Technologies segment and were not material to the
consolidated financial statements.   

            Gain
on sale of non-strategic businesses and assets for 2009 includes a $50 million
pre-tax gain, $42 million net of tax, related to the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary within our Automation and Control Solutions segment. The subsidiary
achieved contractual milestones at December 31, 2009 and as a result, we are no
longer the primary beneficiary, resulting in deconsolidation. We continue to
hold a non-controlling interest which was recorded at its estimated fair value
of $67 million upon deconsolidation. The fair value was estimated using a
combination of a market and income approaches utilizing observable market data
for comparable businesses and discounted cash flow modeling. Our
non-controlling interest, classified within Investments and long-term
receivables on our Balance Sheet will be accounted for under the equity method
on a prospective basis.   

            Other,
net for 2009 includes an other than-temporary impairment charge of $62 million.
See Note 16 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures for further details.   

   Note 5. Interest and Other Financial Charges   

The
weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial paper
outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 0.84 percent and 1.64 percent,
respectively.  

   Note 6. Income Taxes   

   Income from continuing operations before taxes   

70  

(1) Net of changes in valuation
allowance and tax reserves  

            The
effective tax rate decreased by 9.8 percentage points in 2011 compared with
2010 primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings related to higher U.S.
    pension expense (primarily driven by an approximate 7.6 percentage point
    impact which resulted from the increase in pension mark-to-market expense),
    an increased benefit from manufacturing incentives, an increased benefit
    from the favorable settlement of tax audits and an increased benefit from
    a lower foreign effective tax rate. The foreign effective tax rate was 21.1
    percent, a decrease of approximately 4.9 percentage points which primarily
    consisted of (i) a 5.1 percent impact from decreased valuation allowances
    on net operating losses primarily due to an increase in German earnings available
    to be offset by net operating loss carry forwards; (ii) a 2.4 percent impact
    from tax benefits related to foreign exchange and investment losses; iii)
    a 1.2 percent impact from an increased benefit in tax credits and lower statutory
    tax rates and (iv) a 4.1 percent impact related to an increase in tax reserves.
    The effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent
    primarily due to earnings taxed at lower foreign rates.  

  71  

The
effective tax rate increased by 5.9 percentage points in 2010 compared to 2009
primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings related to lower U.S. pension
expense, the impact of an enacted change in the tax treatment of the Medicare
Part D program, the absence of manufacturing incentives, a decreased impact
from the settlement of audits and an increase in the foreign effective tax
rate. The foreign effective tax rate increased by approximately 7 percentage
points which primarily consisted of i) a 6 percentage point impact from the
absence of tax benefits related to foreign exchange and investment losses and
ii) a (0.1) percentage point impact from increased valuation allowances on net
operating losses.  

   Deferred tax assets (liabilities)   

            Deferred
income taxes represent the future tax effects of transactions which are
reported in different periods for tax and financial reporting purposes. The tax
effects of temporary differences and tax carryforwards which give rise to
future income tax benefits and payables are as follows:  

There were
$3 million of U.S. federal tax net operating losses available for carryforward
at December 31, 2011 which have expiration dates through 2029. The Company has
state tax net operating loss carryforwards of $3.5 billion at December 31, 2011
with varying expiration dates through 2032. We also have foreign net operating
and capital losses of $2.7 billion which are available to reduce future income
tax payments in several countries, subject to varying expiration rules.  

            We have U.S.
federal tax credit carryforwards of $35 million at December 31, 2011, including
alternative minimum tax credits which are not subject to expiration. We also
have state tax credit carryforwards of $61 million at December 31, 2011,
including carryforwards of $38 million with various expiration dates through
2026 and tax credits of $23 million which are not subject to expiration.   

            The
valuation allowance against deferred tax assets decreased by $45 million in
2011 and increased by $58 million and $133 million in 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The 2011 decrease in the valuation allowance was primarily due to
decreased foreign net operating losses related to the Netherlands and Germany,
partially offset by the increase in the valuation allowance of France,
Luxembourg and Canada. The 2010 increase in the valuation allowance was
primarily due to increased foreign net operating losses related to France,
Luxembourg, and the Netherlands offset by the reversal of a valuation allowance
related to Germany. The 2010 increase in valuation allowance also includes
adjustments related to purchase accounting for various acquisitions. The 2009
increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due to increased foreign net
operating losses related to Germany, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.  

            Federal
income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of the majority
of our international subsidiaries as it is our intention to reinvest these
earnings into the respective subsidiaries. At December 31, 2011 Honeywell has
not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on
approximately $8.1 billion of such earnings of our non-U.S. operations. It is
not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if some or
all of such earnings were to be repatriated, and the amount of foreign tax
credits that would be available to reduce or eliminate the resulting U.S.
income tax liability.  

            We had $815
million, $757 million and $720 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 respectively. If recognized, $815 million
would be recorded as a component of income tax   

  72  

expense as of December 31, 2011. For the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010, the Company increased its unrecognized tax benefits by $58 million
and $37 million, respectively, due to additional reserves for various
international and U.S. tax audit matters, partially offset by adjustments
related to our ongoing assessments of the likelihood and amount of potential
outcomes of current and future examinations, the expiration of various statute
of limitations, and settlements with tax authorities. The following table
summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits:  

Generally, our uncertain tax positions are related to tax years that
remain subject to examination by the relevant tax authorities. The following
table summarizes these open tax years by major jurisdiction as of December 31,
2011:  

(1)  

includes federal as well as state,
provincial or similar local jurisdictions, as applicable.  

Based on the
outcome of these examinations, or as a result of the expiration of statute of
limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the
related unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions taken regarding previously
filed tax returns will materially change from those recorded as liabilities for
uncertain tax positions in our financial statements. In addition, the outcome
of these examinations may impact the valuation of certain deferred tax assets
(such as net operating losses) in future periods. Based on the number of tax
years currently under audit by the relevant U.S federal, state and foreign tax
authorities, the Company anticipates that several of these audits may be
finalized in the foreseeable future. However, based on the status of these
examinations, the protocol of finalizing audits by the relevant taxing
authorities, and the possibility that the Company might challenge certain audit
findings (which could include formal legal proceedings), at this time it is not
possible to estimate the impact of any amount of such changes, if any, to
previously recorded uncertain tax positions.  

            Unrecognized
tax benefits for examinations in progress were $482 million, $274 million and
$261 million, as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. These
increases are primarily due to an increase in tax examinations. Estimated
interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes are
classified as a component of Tax Expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
and totaled $63 million, $33 million and $13 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Accrued interest and penalties
were $247 million, $183 million and $150 million, as of December 31, 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively.  

  73  

Note 7. Earnings Per Share   

            The details
of the earnings per share calculations for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 are as follows:  

The diluted
earnings per share calculations exclude the effect of stock options when the
options  assumed proceeds exceed the average market price of the common shares
during the period. In 2011, 2010, and 2009 the weighted number of stock options
excluded from the computations were 9.5, 14.8, and 34.0 million, respectively.
These stock options were outstanding at the end of each of the respective
periods.  

   Note
8. Accounts, Notes and Other Receivables   

74  

Trade
Receivables includes $1,404, and $1,307 million of unbilled balances under
long-term contracts as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively. These amounts are billed in accordance with the terms of customer
contracts to which they relate.  

   Note 9. Inventories   

Inventories
valued at LIFO amounted to $302 and $198 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Had such LIFO inventories been valued at current costs, their
carrying values would have been approximately $169 and $154 million higher at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

   Note 10. Investments and Long-Term Receivables   

Long-Term
Trade and Other Receivables include $29 and $19 million of unbilled balances
under long-term contracts as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These
amounts are billed in accordance with the terms of the customer contracts to
which they relate.  

            The
following table summarizes long term trade, financing and other receivables by
segment, including current portions and allowances for credit losses.  

Allowance
for credit losses for the above detailed long-term trade, financing and other
receivables totaled $5 million and $7 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The receivables are evaluated for impairment on an individual
basis, including consideration of credit quality. The above detailed financing
receivables are predominately with commercial and governmental counterparties
of investment grade credit quality.  

  75  

Note 11. Property, Plant and Equipment   

Depreciation expense was $699, $707 and $686 million in 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively.  

   Note 12. Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets - Net   

            The
change in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010 by segment is as follows:  

Intangible
assets amortization expense was $249, $263, and $250 million in 2011, 2010,
2009, respectively. Estimated intangible asset amortization expense for each of
the next five years approximates $250 million in 2012, $226 million in 2013,
$200 million in 2014, $166 million in 2015, and $141 in 2016.  

   Note 13. Accrued
Liabilities   

  76  

Note 14. Long -term
Debt and Credit Agreements   

77  

The schedule of principal payments on long term debt is as follows:  

In
February 2011, the Company issued $800 million 4.25 percent Senior Notes due
2021 and $600 million 5.375 percent Senior Notes due 2041 (collectively, the
 Notes ). The Notes are senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of
Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior
unsecured debt and senior to all of Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering
resulted in gross proceeds of $1,400 million, offset by $19 million in discount
and closing costs related to the offering.   

            In
the first quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased the entire outstanding
principal amount of its $400 million 5.625 percent Notes due 2012 via a cash
tender offer and a subsequent optional redemption. The cost relating to the
early redemption of the Notes, including the  make-whole premium , was $29
million.  

            In
March 2011, the Company entered into a $2,800 million Five Year Credit
Agreement ( Credit Agreement ) with a syndicate of banks. Commitments under the
Credit Agreement can be increased pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500 million. The Credit Agreement
contains a $700 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The
Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes, including
support for the issuance of commercial paper, and replaces the previous $2,800
million five year credit agreement dated May 14, 2007 ( Prior Agreement ).
There have been no borrowings under the Credit Agreement or the Prior
Agreement.   

            The
Credit Agreement does not restrict our ability to pay dividends and contains no
financial covenants. The failure to comply with customary conditions or the
occurrence of customary events of default contained in the credit agreement
would prevent any further borrowings and would generally require the repayment
of any outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement. Such events of
default include: (a) non-payment of credit agreement debt, interest or fees;
(b) non-compliance with the terms of the credit agreement covenants; (c)
cross-default to other debt in certain circumstances; (d) bankruptcy; and (e)
defaults upon obligations under Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Additionally,
each of the banks has the right to terminate its commitment to lend additional
funds or issue letters of credit under the agreement if any person or group
acquires beneficial ownership of 30 percent or more of our voting stock, or,
during any 12-month period, individuals who were directors of Honeywell at the
beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the Board of
Directors.  

            Loans
under the Credit Agreement are required to be repaid no later than March 31,
2016. We have agreed to pay a facility fee of 0.125 percent per annum on the
aggregate commitment.  

            Interest
on borrowings under the Credit Agreement would be determined, at Honeywell s
option, by (a) a competitive bidding procedure; (b) the highest of the floating
base rate publicly announced by Citibank, N.A. 0.5 percent above the Federal
funds rate or Libor plus 1 percent; or (c) the Eurocurrency rate plus
Honeywell s credit default swap spread, subject to a floor and a cap
(applicable margin).  

            The
facility fee, the applicable margin over the Eurocurrency rate and the letter
of credit issuance fee, are subject to change, based upon a grid determined by
our long term debt ratings. The Credit Agreement is not subject to termination
based upon a decrease in our debt ratings or a material adverse change.  

            In
the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company repaid $500 million of its 6.125%
notes. The repayment was funded with cash provided by operating activities.   

  78  

In
the first quarter of 2010, the Company repaid $1,000 million of its 7.50%
notes. The repayment was funded with cash provided by operating activities.  

            As
a source of liquidity, we sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts
receivables to third parties. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
none of the receivables in the designated pools had been sold to third parties.
When we sell receivables, they are over-collateralized and we retain a
subordinated interest in the pool of receivables representing that
over-collateralization as well as an undivided interest in the balance of the
receivables pools. The terms of the trade accounts receivable program permit
the repurchase of receivables from the third parties at our discretion,
providing us with an additional source of revolving credit. As a result,
program receivables remain on the Company s balance sheet with a corresponding
amount recorded as either Short-term borrowings or Long-term debt.  

   Note 15. Lease Commitments   

            Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases having initial or remaining
noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:  

We
have entered into agreements to lease land, equipment and buildings.
Principally all our operating leases have initial terms of up to 25 years, and
some contain renewal options subject to customary conditions. At any time
during the terms of some of our leases, we may at our option purchase the
leased assets for amounts that approximate fair value. We do not expect that
any of our commitments under the lease agreements will have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
liquidity.  

            Rent
expense was $386, $369 and $366 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

   Note 16. Financial Instruments and Fair Value
Measures   

             Credit and Market Risk  Financial
instruments, including derivatives, expose us to counterparty credit risk for
nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest and currency
exchange rates and commodity prices. We manage our exposure to counterparty
credit risk through specific minimum credit standards, diversification of
counterparties, and procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our
counterparties in derivative transactions are substantial investment and
commercial banks with significant experience using such derivative instruments.
We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value and cash flows of our
derivative and other financial instruments considering reasonably possible
changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices and
restrict the use of derivative financial instruments to hedging activities.  

            We
continually monitor the creditworthiness of our customers to which we grant
credit terms in the normal course of business. The terms and conditions of our
credit sales are designed to mitigate or eliminate concentrations of credit
risk with any single customer. Our sales are not materially dependent on a
single customer or a small group of customers.  

             Foreign Currency Risk
Management  We conduct our business on a multinational basis in a
wide variety of foreign currencies. Our exposure to market risk for changes in
foreign currency exchange rates arises from international financing activities
between subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated monetary assets and
liabilities and transactions arising from international trade. Our objective is
to preserve the economic value of non-functional currency denominated cash
flows. We attempt to hedge transaction exposures with natural offsets to the
fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted,
through foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts with third
parties.   

  79  

We
hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies.
Prior to conversion into U.S. dollars, these assets and liabilities are
remeasured at spot exchange rates in effect on the balance sheet date. The
effects of changes in spot rates are recognized in earnings and included in
Other (Income) Expense. We partially hedge forecasted sales and purchases, which
predominantly occur in the next twelve months and are denominated in
non-functional currencies, with currency forward contracts. Changes in the
forecasted non-functional currency cash flows due to movements in exchange
rates are substantially offset by changes in the fair value of the currency
forward contracts designated as hedges. Market value gains and losses on these
contracts are recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction is recognized.
Open foreign currency exchange forward contracts mature predominantly in the
next twelve months. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had contracts with
notional amounts of $7,108 million and $5,733 million, respectively, to
exchange foreign currencies, principally the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound,
Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Mexican peso, Swiss franc, Czech koruna,
Chinese renminbi, Indian rupee, Singapore dollar, Swedish krona, Korean won and
Thai baht.  

             Commodity Price Risk
Management  Our exposure to market risk for commodity prices can result
in changes in our cost of production. We primarily mitigate our exposure to
commodity price risk through the use of long-term, fixed-price contracts with
our suppliers and formula price agreements with suppliers and customers. We
also enter into forward commodity contracts with third parties designated as
hedges of anticipated purchases of several commodities. Forward commodity
contracts are marked-to-market, with the resulting gains and losses recognized
in earnings when the hedged transaction is recognized. At December 31, 2011 and
2010, we had contracts with notional amounts of $59 million and $23 million,
respectively, related to forward commodity agreements, principally base metals
and natural gas.   

             Interest Rate Risk
Management   We use a combination of financial instruments, including
long-term, medium-term and short-term financing, variable-rate commercial
paper, and interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate mix of our total
debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. At December 31, 2011 and
2010, interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively
changed $1,400 and $600 million, respectively, of fixed rate debt at a rate of
4.09 and 3.88 percent, respectively, to LIBOR based floating rate debt. Our
interest rate swaps mature through 2021.   

             Fair Value
of Financial Instruments   The FASB s accounting guidance defines fair
value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date (exit price). The FASB s guidance classifies the inputs used
to measure fair value into the following hierarchy:  

Level 1  

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
 liabilities  

Level 2  

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or
 liabilities, or  

Unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or
 liabilities in markets that are not active, or  

Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or
 liability  

Level 3  

Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability  

The Company endeavors to utilize the best
available information in measuring fair value. Financial and nonfinancial
assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest
level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company
has determined that our available for sale investments in marketable equity
securities are level 1 and our remaining financial assets and liabilities are
level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The following table sets forth the
Company s financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair
value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:   

  80  

The
foreign currency exchange contracts, interest rate swap agreements, and forward
commodity contracts are valued using broker quotations, or market transactions
in either the listed or over-the-counter markets. As such, these derivative
instruments are classified within level 2. The Company also holds investments
in commercial paper, certificates of deposits, and time deposits that are
designated as available for sale and are valued using market transactions in
over-the-counter markets. As such, these investments are classified within
level 2.   

            The
carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts and notes
receivables, payables, commercial paper and short-term borrowings contained in
the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximates fair value. The following table
sets forth the Company s financial assets and liabilities that were not carried
at fair value:  

In
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had assets with a net
book value of $262 million and $32 million, respectively, specifically
property, plant and equipment, software and intangible assets, which were
accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets were tested
for impairment and based on the fair value of these assets the Company
recognized losses of $127 million and $30 million, respectively, in the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, primarily in connection with our
repositioning actions (see Note 3 Repositioning and Other Charges). The Company
has determined that the fair value measurements of these nonfinancial assets
are level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.  

            The
Company holds investments in marketable equity securities that are designated
as available for sale securities. Due to an other-than-temporary decline in
fair value of these investments, the Company recognized an impairment charge of
$62 million in the second quarter of 2009 that is included in Other (Income)
Expense.  

            The
derivatives utilized for risk management purposes as detailed above are
included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and impacted the Statement of
Operations as follows:  

  81  

Fair value of derivatives classified as assets consist of the
following:  

Designated as a Hedge   

Balance Sheet
 Classification   

December 31, 
 2011   

December 31, 
 2010   

Foreign currency exchange contracts  

Accounts, notes, and other receivables  

$  

18  

$  

10  

Interest rate swap agreements  

Other assets  

134  

22  

Commodity contracts  

Accounts, notes, and other receivables  

1  

2  

Not Designated as a
 Hedge   

Balance Sheet
 Classification   

December 31, 
 2011   

December 31, 
 2010   

Foreign currency exchange contracts  

Accounts, notes, and other receivables  

$  

8  

$  

6  

Fair value of derivatives classified as liabilities consist of the
 following:  

Designated as a Hedge   

Balance Sheet
 Classification   

December 31, 
 2011   

December 31, 
 2010   

Foreign currency exchange contracts  

Accrued liabilities  

$  

50  

$  

9  

Commodity contracts  

Accrued liabilities  

10  

2  

Not Designated as a
 Hedge   

Balance Sheet
 Classification   

December 31, 
 2011   

December 31, 
 2010   

Foreign currency exchange contracts  

Accrued liabilities  

$  

2  

$  

5  

Gains (losses) recognized in OCI (effective portions) consist of the
 following:  

Year Ended 
 December 31,   

Designated
 Cash Flow Hedge   

2011   

2010   

Foreign currency exchange contracts  

$  

(42  

)  

$  

12  

Commodity contracts  

(12  

)  

(7  

)  

Gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to income consist of the
 following:  

Year Ended 
 December 31,   

Designated
 Cash Flow Hedge   

Income
 Statement Location   

2011   

2010   

Foreign currency exchange contracts  

Product sales  

$  

29  

$  

(19  

)  

Cost of products sold  

(34  

)  

30  

Sales   general administrative  

(8  

)  

(3  

)  

Commodity contracts  

Cost of products sold  

$  

(2  

)  

$  

(8  

)  

Ineffective
portions of commodity derivative instruments designated in cash flow hedge
relationships were insignificant in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
and are located in cost of products sold.   

  82  

Interest
rate swap agreements are designated as hedge relationships with gains or
(losses) on the derivative recognized in Interest and other financial charges
offsetting the gains and losses on the underlying debt being hedged. Gains or
(losses) on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings were $112 and
$24 million in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 respectively. These
gains were fully offset by losses on the underlying debt being hedged.   

            We
also economically hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates
principally with forward contracts. These contracts are marked-to-market with
the resulting gains and losses recognized in earnings offsetting the gains and
losses on the non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and
liabilities being hedged. We recognized $30 million of income and $18 million
of expense, in Other (Income) Expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively.   

   Note 17. Other Liabilities   

A
reconciliation of our liability for asset retirement obligations for the year
ended December 31, 2011, is as follows:  

Note 18. Capital Stock   

            We
are authorized to issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, with a par
value of $1. Common shareowners are entitled to receive such dividends as may
be declared by the Board, are entitled to one vote per share, and are entitled,
in the event of liquidation, to share ratably in all the assets of Honeywell
which are available for distribution to the common shareowners. Common
shareowners do not have preemptive or conversion rights. Shares of common stock
issued and outstanding or held in the treasury are not liable to further calls
or assessments. There are no restrictions on us relative to dividends or the
repurchase or redemption of common stock.  

            The
Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to a total of $3.0
billion of Honeywell common stock, which amount includes $1.9 billion that
remained available under the Company s previously reported share repurchase
program. We purchased a total of approximately 20.3 million shares of our
common stock in 2011 for $1,085 million.   

  83  

We
are authorized to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par
value, and can determine the number of shares of each series, and the rights,
preferences and limitations of each series. At December 31, 2011, there was no
preferred stock outstanding.  

   Note 19. Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (Loss)   

            Total
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is included in the Consolidated
Statement of Shareowners  Equity. Comprehensive Income (Loss) attributable to
non-controlling interest consisted predominantly of net income. The changes in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) are as follows:   

(1) Includes reclassification adjustment for losses included in net
 income  

Note 20. Stock-Based Compensation Plans   

            We
have stock-based compensation plans available to grant non-qualified stock
options, incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted units
and restricted stock to key employees. The 2011 Stock Incentive Plan of
Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (the Plan) was approved by the
shareowners at the Annual Meeting of Shareowners effective on April 26, 2011.
Following approval of the Plan on April 26, 2011 we have not and will not grant any new
awards to key employees under any previously existing stock-based compensation
plans. There were 39,582,132 shares available for future grants under the
terms of the Plan at December 31, 2011. Additionally, under the 2006 Stock Plan
for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. (the Directors Plan)
there were 229,000 shares of Honeywell common stock available for future grant
as of December 31, 2011.  

  84  

Stock
Options        The exercise price, term and other conditions
applicable to each option granted under our stock plans are generally
determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the
Board. The exercise price of stock options is set on the grant date and may not
be less than the fair market value per share of our stock on that date. The
fair value is recognized as an expense over the employee s requisite service
period (generally the vesting period of the award). Options generally vest over
a four-year period and expire after ten years.   

            The
fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatility is based on implied
volatilities from traded options on Honeywell common stock. We used a Monte
Carlo simulation model to derive an expected term. Such model uses historical
data to estimate option exercise activity and post-vest termination behavior.
The expected term represents an estimate of the time options are expected to
remain outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life
of the option is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect at the time
of grant.  

            Compensation
cost on a pre-tax basis related to stock options recognized in operating
results (included in selling, general and administrative expenses) in 2011,
2010 and 2009 was $59, $55 and $39 million, respectively. The associated future
income tax benefit recognized in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $19, $16 and $13
million, respectively.   

            The
following table sets forth fair value per share information, including related
weighted-average assumptions, used to determine compensation cost:  

(1)  

Estimated on date of grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  

The following table summarizes information about stock option activity
for the three years ended December 31, 2011:  

  85  

(1)  

Represents the sum of vested options of
 21.7 million and expected to vest options of 14.1 million. Expected to vest
 options are derived by applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to
 total outstanding unvested options 17.2 million.  

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2011:  

(1) Average remaining contractual life in years.  

            There were
24,722,493 and 27,427,023 options exercisable at weighted average exercise
prices of $39.43 and $38.85 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

            The total
intrinsic value of options (which is the amount by which the stock price
exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of exercise) exercised
during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $164, $54 and $4 million, respectively. During
2011, 2010 and 2009, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock
options was $290, $181 and $20 million, respectively, with an associated tax
benefit realized of $54, $18 and $1 million, respectively. In 2011, 2010 and
2009 we classified $42, $13 and $1 million, respectively, of this benefit as a
financing cash inflow in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the
balance was classified as cash from operations.  

            At
December 31, 2011 there was $119 million of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to non-vested stock option awards which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.52 years. The total fair value
of options vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $52, $41 and $51 million,
respectively.  

  86  

Restricted
Stock Units    Restricted stock unit (RSU) awards entitle the
holder to receive one share of common stock for each unit when the units vest.
RSUs are issued to certain key employees at fair market value at the date of
grant as compensation. RSUs typically become fully vested over periods ranging
from three to seven years and are payable in Honeywell common stock upon
vesting.   

            The
following table summarizes information about RSU activity for the three years
ended December 31, 2011:  

As
of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $179 million of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs granted under our
stock plans which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
of 1.8 years. Compensation expense related to RSUs was $109, $109 and $79
million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  

              Non-Employee
Directors  Plan    Under the Directors  Plan each new non-employee
director receives a one-time grant of 3,000 restricted stock units that will
vest on the fifth anniversary of continuous Board service.   

            In
2011, each non-employee director received an annual grant to purchase 5,000
shares of common stock at the fair market value on the date of grant. In 2012,
the annual equity grant will change from a fixed number of shares to a target
value of $75,000 and will consist of 50 percent options and 50 percent RSUs.
Options will become exercisable over a four-year period and expire after ten
years. RSUs will generally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.  

   Note 21. Commitments
and Contingencies   

   Environmental Matters   

            We
are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government
requirements relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as
a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed
to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and
that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous substances are in
accordance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly
because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like
other companies engaged in similar businesses, have incurred remedial response
and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits
and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past
production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits,
claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to
arise in the future.  

            With
respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually
conduct studies, individually or jointly with other potentially responsible
parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial   

  87  

techniques. It is our policy to record
appropriate liabilities for environmental matters when remedial efforts or
damage claim payments are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.
Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of the undiscounted future
costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded liabilities are
adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional
technical, regulatory or legal information becomes available. Given the
uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement policies,
the impact of other potentially responsible parties, technology and information
related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to develop an
estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental loss in excess of
our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund expenditures for these matters from
operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a number of
factors, including the timing of remedial investigations and feasibility
studies, the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability,
personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup
projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreements with other parties.

The
following table summarizes information concerning our recorded liabilities for
environmental costs:  

Environmental
liabilities are included in the following balance sheet accounts:  

Although
we do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of studies,
litigation or settlements, and neither the timing nor the amount of the
ultimate costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they
could be material to our consolidated results of operations or operating cash
flows in the periods recognized or paid. However, considering our past
experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that these environmental
matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position.  

              New
Jersey Chrome Sites    The excavation and offsite disposal of approximately
one million tons of chromium residue present at a predecessor Honeywell site
located in Jersey City, New Jersey, known as Study Area 7, was completed in
January 2010. We are also implementing related groundwater remedial actions,
and are seeking the appropriate permits from state and federal agencies for
related river sediment work approved by the federal court. Provisions have been
made in our financial statements for the estimated cost of these remedies.   

            The
above-referenced site is the most significant of the 21 sites located in Hudson
County, New Jersey that are the subject of an Administrative Consent Order
(ACO) entered into with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
(NJDEP) in 1993 (the  Honeywell ACO Sites ). Remedial investigations and
activities consistent with the ACO and other applicable settlement orders have
been conducted and are underway at the other Honeywell ACO Sites. In addition,
a settlement order was entered by the New Jersey State Superior Court in the
third quarter of 2011 resolving litigation brought by the NJDEP against
Honeywell and two other companies regarding the investigation and remediation
of the remaining sites in the area that allegedly have chromium contamination
(known as the Publicly Funded Sites). Under the settlement, Honeywell has
accepted responsibility to remediate 24 of the 53 Publicly Funded Sites and
will also bear 50 percent of the costs at another 10 Publicly Funded Sites.
Honeywell is developing a schedule for the investigation and remediation of
these Publicly Funded Sites. We have recorded reserves for the Honeywell ACO
Sites and the applicable Publicly Funded Sites where   

  88  

appropriate under the accounting policy
described above.  

              Dundalk
Marine Terminal, Baltimore, MD    Chrome residue from legacy chrome plant operations
in Baltimore was deposited as fill at the Dundalk Marine Terminal ( DMT ),
which is owned and operated by the Maryland Port Administration ( MPA ).
Honeywell and the MPA have been sharing costs to investigate and mitigate
related environmental issues, and have entered into a cost sharing agreement
under which Honeywell will bear 77 percent of the costs of developing and
implementing permanent remedies for the DMT facility. In January 2011, the MPA
and Honeywell submitted to the Maryland Department of the Environment ( MDE ) a
Corrective Measures Alternatives Analysis ( CMAA ) of certain potential
remedies for DMT to assist MDE in selection of a final remedy, which has not
yet occurred. Provision has been made in our financial statements for the CMAA
consistent with the accounting policy described above. We have negotiated a
Consent Decree with the MPA and MDE with respect to the investigation and
remediation of the DMT facility. The Consent Decree is being challenged in
federal court by BUILD, a Baltimore community group, together with a local
church and two individuals (collectively  BUILD ). In October 2007, the Court
dismissed with prejudice BUILD s state law claims and dismissed without
prejudice BUILD s RCRA claims regarding neighborhoods near the DMT facility. In
August 2008, the Court held a hearing on the Company s motion to dismiss
BUILD s remaining claims on the grounds that MDE is diligently prosecuting the
investigation and remediation of the DMT. We are awaiting the Court s decision.
We do not believe that this matter will have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated financial position or operating cash flows. Given the scope and
complexity of this project, it is possible that the cost of remediation, when
determinable, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations
in the periods recognized.   

              Onondaga
Lake, Syracuse, NY    We are implementing a combined dredging/capping
remedy of Onondaga Lake pursuant to a consent decree approved by the United
States District Court for the Northern District of New York in January 2007. We
have accrued for our estimated cost of remediating Onondaga Lake based on
currently available information and analysis performed by our engineering
consultants. Honeywell is also conducting remedial investigations and
activities at other sites in Syracuse. We have recorded reserves for these
investigations and activities where appropriate under the accounting policy
described above.   

            Honeywell
has entered into a cooperative agreement with potential natural resource
trustees to assess alleged natural resource damages relating to this site. It
is not possible to predict the outcome or duration of this assessment, or the
amounts of, or responsibility for, any damages.  

   Asbestos Matters   

            Like
many other industrial companies, Honeywell is a defendant in personal injury
actions related to asbestos. We did not mine or produce asbestos, nor did we
make or sell insulation products or other construction materials that have been
identified as the primary cause of asbestos related disease in the vast
majority of claimants.   

            Honeywell s
predecessors owned North American Refractories Company (NARCO) from 1979 to
1986. NARCO produced refractory products (bricks and cement used in high
temperature applications). We sold the NARCO business in 1986 and agreed to
indemnify NARCO with respect to personal injury claims for products that had
been discontinued prior to the sale (as defined in the sale agreement). NARCO
retained all liability for all other claims. NARCO and/or Honeywell are
defendants in asbestos personal injury cases asserting claims based upon
alleged exposure to NARCO asbestos-containing products. Claimants consist
largely of individuals who allege exposure to NARCO asbestos-containing
refractory products in an occupational setting. These claims, and the filing of
subsequent claims, have been stayed continuously since January 4, 2002, the
date on which NARCO sought bankruptcy protection (see discussion below).   

            Honeywell s
Bendix friction materials (Bendix) business manufactured automotive brake parts
that contained chrysotile asbestos in an encapsulated form. Claimants consist
largely of individuals who allege exposure to asbestos from brakes from either
performing or being in the vicinity of individuals who performed brake
replacements.  

            The
following tables summarize information concerning NARCO and Bendix asbestos
related balances:  

  89  

NARCO
and Bendix asbestos related balances are included in the following balance
sheet accounts:  

NARCO
Products      On January 4, 2002, NARCO filed a petition for reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In connection with the filing of
NARCO s petition in 2002, the Bankruptcy Court issued an injunction staying the
prosecution of NARCO-related asbestos claims against the Company, which stay
has    

  90  

continuously remained in place. In November
2007, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania
confirmed NARCO s Third Amended Plan of Reorganization (NARCO Plan of
Reorganization). All challenges to the NARCO Plan of Reorganization were fully
resolved in the third quarter of 2010. The NARCO Plan of Reorganization cannot
become effective, however, until unrelated issues pertaining to certain NARCO
affiliates which are pending in Bankruptcy Court are resolved. It is not
possible to predict the timing or outcome of the Bankruptcy Court proceedings
in the affiliates  case or whether discussions between the parties will resolve
the matter. We expect that the stay enjoining litigation against NARCO and
Honeywell will remain in effect until the effective date of the NARCO Plan of
Reorganization.  

            In
connection with NARCO s bankruptcy filing, we agreed to certain obligations
which will be triggered upon the effective date of the NARCO Plan of
Reorganization. Honeywell will provide NARCO with $20 million in financing and
simultaneously forgive such indebtedness. We will also pay $40 million to
NARCO s former parent company and $16 million to certain asbestos claimants
whose claims were resolved during the pendency of the NARCO bankruptcy
proceedings. These amounts have been classified as Accrued Liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011.  

            When
the NARCO Plan of Reorganization becomes effective, in connection with its
implementation, a federally authorized 524(g) trust ( NARCO Trust ) will be
established for the evaluation and resolution of all existing and future NARCO
asbestos claims. When the NARCO Trust is established, both Honeywell and NARCO
will be entitled to a permanent channeling injunction barring all present and
future individual actions in state or federal courts and requiring all asbestos
related claims based on exposure to NARCO products to be made against the
Trust. The NARCO Trust will review submitted claims and determine award amounts
in accordance with established Trust Distribution Procedures approved by the
Bankruptcy Court which set forth all criteria claimants must meet to qualify
for compensation including, among other things, exposure and medical criteria
that determine the award amount.  

            Once
the NARCO Trust is established and operational, Honeywell will be obligated to
fund NARCO asbestos claims submitted to the trust which qualify for payment
under the Trust Distribution Procedures, subject to annual caps up to $150
million in any year, provided, however, that the first $100 million of claims
processed through the NARCO Trust (the  Initial Claims Amount ) will not count
against the first year annual cap and any unused portion of the Initial Claims
Amount will roll over to subsequent years until fully utilized.  

            Once
the NARCO Trust is established and operational, Honeywell will also be
responsible for the following funding obligations which are not subject to the
annual cap described above: a) previously approved payments due to claimants
pursuant to settlement agreements reached during the pendency of the NARCO
bankruptcy proceedings which provide that a portion of these settlements is to
be paid by the NARCO Trust, which amounts are estimated at $130 million and are
expected to be paid during the first year of trust operations and, b) payments
due to claimants pursuant to settlement agreements reached during the pendency
of the NARCO bankruptcy proceedings that provide for the right to submit claims
to the NARCO Trust subject to qualification under the terms of the settlement
agreements and Trust Distribution Procedures criteria, which amounts are
estimated at $150 million and are expected to be paid during the first two
years of trust operations.   

            Our
consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated liability for the
amounts discussed above, unsettled claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for
bankruptcy protection and for the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos
claims expected to be asserted against the NARCO Trust through 2018. In light
of the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections and in connection
with the initial operation of a 524(g) trust, as well as the stay of all NARCO
asbestos claims since January 2002, we do not believe that we have a reasonable
basis for estimating NARCO asbestos claims beyond 2018. In the absence of
actual trust experience on which to base the estimate, Honeywell projected the
probable value, including trust claim handling costs, of asbestos related
future liabilities based on Company specific and general asbestos claims filing
rates, expected rates of disease and anticipated claim values. Specifically,
the valuation methodology included an analysis of the population likely to have
been exposed to asbestos containing products, epidemiological studies to
estimate the number of people likely to develop asbestos related diseases,
NARCO asbestos claims filing history, general asbestos claims filing rates in
the tort system and in certain operating asbestos trusts, and the claims
experience in those forums, the pending inventory of NARCO asbestos claims,
disease criteria and payment values contained in the Trust Distribution
Procedures and an estimated approval rate of claims submitted to the NARCO
Trust. This methodology used to estimate the liability for future claims has
been commonly accepted by numerous bankruptcy courts addressing 524(g) trusts and
resulted in a range of estimated liability for future claims of $743 to $961
million. We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate than
any other amount and accordingly, we have recorded the minimum amount in the
range.  

            Our
insurance receivable corresponding to the liability for settlement of pending
and future NARCO asbestos claims reflects coverage which reimburses Honeywell
for portions of the costs incurred to settle NARCO   

  91  

related claims and court judgments as well as
defense costs and is provided by a large number of insurance policies written
by dozens of insurance companies in both the domestic insurance market and the
London excess market. At December 31, 2011, a significant portion of this
coverage is with insurance companies with whom we have agreements to pay full
policy limits. We conduct analyses to determine the amount of insurance that we
estimate is probable of recovery in relation to payment of current and
estimated future claims. While the substantial majority of our insurance
carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has
been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. We made judgments
concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with
our historical dealings with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent
solvency issues surrounding insurers and various judicial determinations
relevant to our insurance programs.  

            In
2006, Travelers Casualty and Insurance Company ( Travelers ) filed a
declaratory judgment action in the Supreme Court of New York, County of New
York against Honeywell and other insurance carriers that provide coverage for
NARCO asbestos claims, seeking a declaration regarding coverage obligations for
NARCO asbestos claims under high excess insurance coverage issued by Travelers
and the other insurance carriers. The other insurance carriers asserted cross
claims against Honeywell seeking declarations regarding their coverage
obligations for NARCO asbestos claims under high excess insurance coverage
issued by them. Since then, the Company has entered into settlement agreements
resolving all NARCO-related asbestos coverage issues with certain of these
insurance carriers, including Travelers. Approximately $57 million of remaining
unsettled coverage is included in our NARCO-related insurance receivable at
December 31, 2011. Honeywell believes it is entitled to the coverage at issue
and expects to prevail in this matter. In 2007, Honeywell prevailed on a
critical choice of law issue concerning the appropriate method of allocating
NARCO-related asbestos liabilities to triggered policies. The plaintiffs
appealed and the trial court s ruling was upheld by the intermediate appellate
court in 2009. Plaintiffs  further appeal to the New York Court of Appeals, the
highest court in New York, was denied in October 2009. A related New Jersey
action brought by Honeywell has been dismissed, but all coverage claims against
plaintiffs have been preserved in the New York action. Based upon (i) our
understanding of relevant facts and applicable law, (ii) the terms of insurance
policies at issue, (iii) our experience on matters of this nature, and (iv) the
advice of counsel, we believe that the amount due from the remaining insurance
carriers is probable of recovery. While Honeywell expects to prevail in this
matter, an adverse outcome could have a material impact on our results of
operations in the period recognized but would not be material to our
consolidated financial position or operating cash flows.  

            Projecting
future events is subject to many uncertainties that could cause the NARCO
related asbestos liabilities or assets to be higher or lower than those
projected and recorded. There is no assurance that the plan of reorganization
will become final, that insurance recoveries will be timely or whether there
will be any NARCO related asbestos claims beyond 2018. Given the inherent
uncertainty in predicting future events, we review our estimates periodically,
and update them based on our experience and other relevant factors. Similarly,
we will reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries
in light of any changes to the projected liability or other developments that
may impact insurance recoveries.  

              Friction
Products    The following tables present
information regarding Bendix related asbestos claims activity:   

  92  

(a) The number of claims filed in 2010 includes approximately 1,541
non-malignant claims (with an accrued liability of approximately $575 thousand
in the aggregate), a majority of which had previously been dismissed in
Mississippi and re-filed in Arkansas.  

  (b) The number of claims resolved in 2011 includes approximately 351
claims previously classified as inactive (82% non-malignant and accrued
liability of approximately $1.7 million) which were activated during 2011. The
number of claims resolved in 2010 includes approximately 1,300 claims
previously classified as inactive (95% non-malignant and accrued liability of
approximately $2.0 million) which were activated during 2010.  

Honeywell has experienced average resolution
values per claim excluding legal costs as follows:  

It
is not possible to predict whether resolution values for Bendix related
asbestos claims will increase, decrease or stabilize in the future.  

            Our
consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated liability for resolution
of pending (claims actually filed as of the financial statement date) and
future Bendix related asbestos claims. We have valued Bendix pending and future
claims using average resolution values for the previous five years. We update
the resolution values used to estimate the cost of Bendix pending and future
claims during the fourth quarter each year.  

            The
liability for future claims represents the estimated value of future asbestos
related bodily injury claims expected to be asserted against Bendix over the
next five years. Such estimated cost of future Bendix related asbestos claims
is based on historic claims filing experience and dismissal rates, disease
classifications, and resolution values in the tort system for the previous five
years. In light of the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections,
as well as certain factors unique to friction product asbestos claims, we do
not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims
beyond the next five years. The methodology used to estimate the liability for
future claims is similar to that used to estimate the future NARCO related
asbestos claims liability.  

            Our
insurance receivable corresponding to the liability for settlement of pending
and future Bendix asbestos claims reflects coverage which is provided by a
large number of insurance policies written by dozens of insurance companies in
both the domestic insurance market and the London excess market. Based on our   

  93  

ongoing analysis of the probable insurance
recovery, insurance receivables are recorded in the financial statements
simultaneous with the recording of the estimated liability for the underlying
asbestos claims. This determination is based on our analysis of the underlying
insurance policies, our historical experience with our insurers, our ongoing
review of the solvency of our insurers, our interpretation of judicial
determinations relevant to our insurance programs, and our consideration of the
impacts of any settlements reached with our insurers. Insurance receivables are
also recorded when structured insurance settlements provide for future fixed
payment streams that are not contingent upon future claims or other events.
Such amounts are recorded at the net present value of the fixed payment stream.  

            On
a cumulative historical basis, Honeywell has recorded insurance receivables
equal to approximately 40 percent of the value of the underlying asbestos
claims recorded. However, because there are gaps in our coverage due to
insurance company insolvencies, certain uninsured periods, and insurance
settlements, this rate is expected to decline for any future Bendix related
asbestos liabilities that may be recorded. Future recoverability rates may also
be impacted by numerous other factors, such as future insurance settlements,
insolvencies and judicial determinations relevant to our coverage program, which
are difficult to predict. Assuming continued defense and indemnity spending at
current levels, we estimate that the cumulative recoverability rate could
decline over the next five years to approximately 33 percent.  

            Honeywell
believes it has sufficient insurance coverage and reserves to cover all pending
Bendix related asbestos claims and Bendix related asbestos claims estimated to
be filed within the next five years. Although it is impossible to predict the
outcome of either pending or future Bendix related asbestos claims, we do not
believe that such claims would have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position in light of our insurance coverage and our
prior experience in resolving such claims. If the rate and types of claims
filed, the average resolution value of such claims and the period of time over
which claim settlements are paid (collectively, the  Variable Claims Factors )
do not substantially change, Honeywell would not expect future Bendix related
asbestos claims to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
or operating cash flows in any fiscal year. No assurances can be given,
however, that the Variable Claims Factors will not change.  

   Other Matters   

            We
are subject to a number of other lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of
which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our
business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government
contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee
benefit plans, intellectual property, and environmental, health and safety
matters. We recognize a liability for any contingency that is probable of
occurrence and reasonably estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of
adverse judgments of outcomes in these matters, as well as potential ranges of
possible losses (taking into consideration any insurance recoveries), based on
a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel
and, if applicable, other experts. Included in these other matters are the
following:  

              Allen,
et al. v. Honeywell Retirement Earnings Plan    Pursuant to a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the
District of Arizona in February 2008, 18 of 21 claims alleged by plaintiffs in
this class action lawsuit were dismissed with prejudice in exchange for
approximately $35 million (paid from the Company s pension plan) and the
maximum aggregate liability for the remaining three claims (alleging that
Honeywell impermissibly reduced the pension benefits of certain employees of a
predecessor entity when the plan was amended in 1983 and failed to calculate
benefits in accordance with the terms of the plan) was capped at $500 million.
In October 2009, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of the Honeywell
Retirement Earnings Plan with respect to the claim regarding the calculation of
benefits. In May 2011, the parties engaged in mediation and reached an
agreement in principle to settle the three remaining claims for $23.8 million
(also to be paid from the Company s pension plan). Settlement documents have
been submitted to the court for classwide approval. A preliminary settlement
order has been approved by the court and a fairness hearing on the settlement
is scheduled for April 2012. Upon court approval of the settlement, all claims
in this matter will be fully resolved.   

              Quick
Lube    On March 31, 2008, S E
Quick Lube, a filter distributor, filed suit in U.S. District Court for the
District of Connecticut alleging that twelve filter manufacturers, including
Honeywell, engaged in a conspiracy to fix prices, rig bids and allocate U.S.
customers for aftermarket automotive filters. This suit is a purported class
action on behalf of direct purchasers of filters from the defendants. Parallel
purported class actions, including on behalf of indirect purchasers of filters,
have been filed by other plaintiffs in a variety of jurisdictions in the United
States and Canada. The U.S cases have been consolidated into a single
multi-district litigation in the Northern District of Illinois. In June 2011,
plaintiff s principal witness pled guilty to a felony count of having made
false statements to federal investigators. In February 2012, Honeywell reached
an agreement in principle to resolve the multi-district litigation class action
as to all plaintiffs, subject to finalization of the agreement and approval by
the court. As previously reported, the Antitrust Division of the Department of
Justice notified Honeywell in January   

  94  

2010 that it had officially closed its
investigation into possible collusion in the replacement auto filters industry.  

              Honeywell
v. United Auto Workers ( UAW ) et. al    In July 2011, Honeywell filed an
action in federal court (District of New Jersey) against the UAW and all former
employees who retired under a series of Master Collective Bargaining Agreements
( MCBAs ) between Honeywell and the UAW. The Company is seeking a declaratory
judgment that certain express limitations on its obligation to contribute toward
the healthcare coverage of such retirees (the  CAPS ) set forth in the MCBAs
may be implemented, effective January 1, 2012. In September 2011, the UAW and
certain retiree defendants filed a motion to dismiss the New Jersey action and
filed suit in the Eastern District of Michigan alleging that the MCBAs do not
provide for CAPS on the Company s liability for healthcare coverage. The UAW
and retiree plaintiffs subsequently filed a motion for class certification and
a motion for partial summary judgment in the Michigan action, seeking a ruling
that retirees who retired prior to the initial inclusion of the CAPS in the
2003 MCBA are not covered by the CAPS as a matter of law. In December 2011, the
New Jersey action was dismissed on jurisdictional grounds. Honeywell has filed
a motion for expedited review of the New Jersey court s dismissal with the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and the parties are
awaiting the court s instructions with respect to how the Michigan action is to
proceed. Honeywell is confident that the CAPS will be upheld and that its
liability for healthcare coverage premiums with respect to the putative class
will be limited as negotiated and expressly set forth in the applicable MCBAs.
In the event of an adverse ruling, however, Honeywell s other postretirement
benefits for pre-2003 retirees would increase by approximately $150 million,
reflecting the estimated value of these CAPS.    

            Given
the uncertainty inherent in litigation and investigations (including the
specific matters referenced above), we do not believe it is possible to develop
estimates of reasonably possible loss in excess of current accruals for these
matters. Considering our past experience and existing accruals, we do not
expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate,
to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.
Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, potential
liabilities are subject to change due to new developments, changes in
settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, which could
cause us to pay damage awards or settlements (or become subject to equitable
remedies) that could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or operating cash flows in the periods recognized or paid.  

    Warranties
and Guarantees    We have issued or are
a party to the following direct and indirect guarantees at December 31, 2011:   

Maximum   
  Potential  
  Future  
  Payments    

Operating lease residual values  

$  

43  

Other third parties  financing  

5  

Unconsolidated affiliates  financing  

12  

Customer financing  

13  

$  

73  

We
do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.  

            In
connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have
indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of
environmental contamination, if any, existing on the date of disposition. Such
expected costs are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial
efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.  

            In
the normal course of business we issue product warranties and product
performance guarantees. We accrue for the estimated cost of product warranties
and performance guarantees based on contract terms and historical experience at
the time of sale. Adjustments to initial obligations for warranties and guarantees
are made as changes in the obligations become reasonably estimable. The
following table summarizes information concerning our recorded obligations for
product warranties and product performance guarantees:  

  95  

Product warranties and product performance guarantees are included in
the following balance sheet accounts:  

96  

Note 22. Pension and
Other Postretirement Benefits   

            We
sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension
plans covering the majority of our employees and retirees. Pension benefits for
substantially all U.S. employees are provided through non-contributory,
qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans. U.S. defined benefit
pension plans comprise 77 percent of our projected benefit obligation. Non-U.S.
employees, who are not U.S. citizens, are covered by various retirement benefit
arrangements, some of which are considered to be defined benefit pension plans
for accounting purposes. Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans comprise 23
percent of our projected benefit obligation.  

            We
also sponsor postretirement benefit plans that provide health care benefits and
life insurance coverage to eligible retirees. Our retiree medical plans mainly
cover U.S. employees who retire with pension eligibility for hospital,
professional and other medical services. Most of the U.S. retiree medical plans
require deductibles and copayments, and virtually all are integrated with
Medicare. Retiree contributions are generally required based on coverage type,
plan and Medicare eligibility. All non-union hourly and salaried employees
joining Honeywell after January 1, 2000 are not eligible to participate in our
retiree medical and life insurance plans. Only approximately 5 percent of
Honeywell s U.S. employees are eligible for a retiree medical subsidy from the
Company; and this subsidy is limited to a fixed-dollar amount. In addition more
than half of its current retirees either have no Company subsidy or have a
fixed dollar subsidy amount. This significantly limits our exposure to the
impact of future health care cost increases. The retiree medical and life
insurance plans are not funded. Claims and expenses are paid from our operating
cash flow.  

            In
2011, in connection with new collective bargaining agreements reached with
several of its union groups, Honeywell amended its U.S. retiree medical plans
eliminating the subsidy for those union employees resulting in curtailment
gains totaling $167 million. The curtailment gains represent the recognition in
net periodic postretirement benefit cost of prior service credits attributable
to the future years of service of the union groups for which future accrual of
benefits has been eliminated.  

            In
2010, Honeywell amended its U.S. retiree medical plan to no longer offer
certain post-age-65 retirees Honeywell group coverage and facilitate their
purchase of an individual plan in the Medicare marketplace. This plan amendment
reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $137 million which
will be recognized as part of net periodic postretirement benefit cost over the
average future service period to full eligibility of the remaining active union
employees still eligible for a retiree medical subsidy. Also in 2010, in
connection with a new collective bargaining agreement reached with one of its
union groups, Honeywell amended its U.S. retiree medical plan eliminating the
subsidy for those union employees who retire after February 1, 2013. This plan
amendment reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $39
million which will be recognized as part of net periodic postretirement benefit
cost over the average future service period to full eligibility of the
remaining active union employees still eligible for a retiree medical subsidy.
This plan amendment also resulted in a curtailment gain of $37 million in 2010
which represented the recognition in net periodic postretirement benefit cost
of prior service credits attributable to the future years of service of the
union group for which future accrual of benefits was eliminated.  

            In
2009, Honeywell amended the U.S. retiree medical plan eliminating the subsidy
for active non-union employees who retire after September 1, 2009. Employees
already retired or who retired on or before September 1, 2009 were not affected
by this change. This plan amendment reduced the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation by $180 million representing the elimination of benefits
attributable to years of service already rendered by active non-union employees
who are not eligible to retire and those eligible non-union employees who were
assumed not to retire prior to September 1, 2009. This reduction in the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation will be recognized as part of net
periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average future service period to
full eligibility of the remaining active union employees still eligible for a
retiree medical subsidy. This plan amendment also resulted in a curtailment
gain of $98 million in 2009 which represented the recognition in net periodic
post retirement benefit cost of prior service credits attributable to the
future years of service of the employee group for which future accrual of
benefits was eliminated.   

  97  

The
following tables summarize the balance sheet impact, including the benefit
obligations, assets and funded status associated with our significant pension
and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2011 and 2010.  

(1)  

Included in Other Assets on Consolidated Balance Sheet  

(2)  

Included in Other Liabilities - Non-Current on Consolidated Balance
 Sheet  

98  

Amounts
recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Income) Loss associated with our
significant pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2011
and 2010 are as follows.  

The
components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in other
comprehensive (income) loss for our significant plans for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 include the following components:  

  99  

The
estimated prior service cost for pension benefits that will be amortized from accumulated
other comprehensive (income) loss into net periodic benefit cost in 2012 are
expected to be $28 million and $(2) million for U.S. and Non-U.S. benefit
plans, respectively.  

  100  

The
estimated net loss and prior service (credit) for other postretirement benefits
that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss into
net periodic benefit cost in 2012 are expected to be $40 and $(15) million,
respectively.  

            Major
actuarial assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations and net
periodic benefit cost for our significant benefit plans are presented in the
following table.  

101  

The discount
rate for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefits plans reflects the
current rate at which the associated liabilities could be settled at the
measurement date of December 31. To determine discount rates for our U.S.
pension and other postretirement benefit plans, we use a modeling process that
involves matching the expected cash outflows of our benefit plans to a yield
curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality, fixed-income debt
instruments. We use the average yield of this hypothetical portfolio as a
discount rate benchmark. The discount rate used to determine the other
postretirement benefit obligation is lower principally due to a shorter
expected duration of other postretirement plan obligations as compared to
pension plan obligations.  

            Our expected
rate of return on U.S. plan assets of 8 percent is a long-term rate based on
historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with our
expectations on future market conditions and the asset mix of the plan s
investments. We review the expected rate of return on an annual basis and
revise it as appropriate.  

            For non-U.S.
benefit plans, none of which was individually material, assumptions reflect
economic assumptions applicable to each country.  

   Pension Benefits   

            Included in
the aggregate data in the tables above are the amounts applicable to our
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations exceeding the fair value of
plan assets. Amounts related to such plans were as follows:  

Accumulated
benefit obligation for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $14.8 and
$14.3 billion and our Non-U.S. defined benefit plans were $4.4 and $4.1 billion
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

            Our asset
investment strategy for our U.S. pension plans focuses on maintaining a
diversified portfolio using various asset classes in order to achieve our
long-term investment objectives on a risk adjusted basis. Our actual invested
positions in various securities change over time based on short and longer-term
investment opportunities. To achieve our objectives, we have established
long-term target allocations as follows: 60-70 percent equity securities, 10-20
percent fixed income securities and cash, 5-15 percent real estate investments,
and 10-20 percent other types of investments. Equity securities include
publicly-traded stock of companies located both inside and outside the United
States. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of companies from
diversified industries, mortgage-backed securities, and U.S. Treasuries. Real
estate investments include direct investments in commercial properties and
investments in real estate funds. Other types of investments include
investments in private equity and hedge funds that follow several different
strategies. We review our assets on a regular basis to ensure that we are
within the targeted asset allocation ranges and, if necessary, asset balances
are adjusted back within target allocations.   

            Our non-U.S.
pension assets are typically managed by decentralized fiduciary committees with
the Honeywell Corporate Investments group providing standard funding and
investment guidance. Local regulations, local funding rules, and local
financial and tax considerations are part of the funding and investment
allocation process in each country. While our non-U.S. investment policies are
different for each country, the long-term investment objectives are generally
the same as those for the U.S. pension assets.   

  102  

The fair
values of both our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans assets at December 31, 2011
and 2010 by asset category are as follows:   

103  

The
following tables summarize changes in the fair value of Level 3 assets for the
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:   

  104  

Our U.S.
pension assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 include $976 and $834 million,
respectively, in notional derivative exposure primarily related to outstanding
equity futures contracts. The Company enters into futures contracts to gain
exposure to certain markets.   

            Common
stocks, preferred stocks, real estate investment trusts, and short-term
investments are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in
which the individual securities are traded. Corporate bonds, mortgages,
asset-backed securities, and government securities are valued either by using
pricing models, bids provided by brokers or dealers, quoted prices of securities
with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and as such include
adjustments for certain risks that may not be observable such as credit and
liquidity risks. Certain securities are held in commingled funds which are
valued using net asset values provided by the   

  105  

administrators of the funds. Investments in
private equity, debt, real estate and hedge funds and direct private
investments are valued at estimated fair value based on quarterly financial
information received from the investment advisor and/or general partner.
Investments in real estate properties are valued on a quarterly basis using the
income approach. Valuation estimates are periodically supplemented by third
party appraisals.   

            Our
general funding policy for qualified pension plans is to contribute amounts at
least sufficient to satisfy regulatory funding standards. In 2011, 2010 and
2009, we were not required to make contributions to our U.S. pension plans,
however, we made voluntary contributions of $1,650, $1,000 and $740 million,
respectively, primarily to improve the funded status of our plans. These
contributions do not reflect benefits paid directly from Company assets. In
2012, we expect to make cash contributions of $800 million to $1 billion ($250
million was made in January 2012) to our global defined benefit pension plans
principally to improve the funded status of our plans and also to satisfy
regulatory funding standards in our non-U.S. plans.  

            Benefit
payments, including amounts to be paid from Company assets, and reflecting
expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:  

Other Postretirement Benefits  

The
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act)
provides subsidies for employers that sponsor postretirement health care plans
that provide prescription drug coverage that is at least actuarially equivalent
to that offered by Medicare Part D. The March 2010 enactment of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, including modifications made in the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 resulted in a one-time, non-cash
charge of $13 million related to income taxes in the first quarter of 2010. The
charge results from a change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D
program.  

The
assumed health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on the amounts
reported. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend
rate would have the following effects:  

1 percentage point   

Increase   

Decrease   

Effect on total of service and interest cost components  

$  

5  

$  

(3  

)  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation  

$  

126  

$  

(80  

)  

Benefit payments reflecting
expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:  

  106  

Employee Savings Plans   

            We
sponsor employee savings plans under which we match, in the form of our common
stock, savings plan contributions for certain eligible employees. Shares issued
under the stock match plans were 2.6, 2.4, and 4.8 million at a cost of $138,
$105 and $158 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  

   Note 23. Segment
Financial Data   

            We
globally manage our business operations through four reportable operating
segments serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
control, sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry,
automotive products and chemicals. Segment information is consistent with how
management reviews the businesses, makes investing and resource allocation
decisions and assesses operating performance. Our four reportable segments are
as follows:  

Aerospace includes Air Transport and Regional, Business and General
 Aviation and Defense and Space and provides products and services which
 include auxiliary power units; propulsion engines; environmental control
 systems; electric power systems, engine controls; repair and overhaul
 services; flight safety, communications, navigation, radar and surveillance
 systems; aircraft lighting; management and technical services; logistic
 services; advanced systems and instruments; and aircraft wheels and brakes.  

Automation and Control Solutions includes Energy, Safety  
 Security (controls for heating, cooling, indoor air quality, ventilation,
 humidification, lighting and home automation; advanced software applications
 for home/building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control
 systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow, temperature and
 electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; personal protection
 equipment; access control; video surveillance equipment; remote patient
 monitoring systems; and automatic identification and data collection);
 Process Solutions (provides a full range of automation and control solutions
 for industrial plants, offering advanced software and automation systems that
 integrate, control and monitor complex processes in many types of industrial
 settings as well as equipment that controls, measures and analyzes natural
 gas production and transportation); and Building Solutions   Distribution
 (installs, distributes, maintains and upgrades systems that keep buildings
 safe, comfortable and productive).  

Performance Materials and Technologies includes Advanced Materials
 (fluorocarbons, hydrofluoroolefins, caprolactam, resins, ammonium sulfate for
 fertilizer, specialty films, waxes, additives, advanced fibers, customized
 research chemicals and intermediates, and electronic materials and chemicals)
 and UOP (catalysts and adsorbents).  

Transportation Systems includes turbochargers, thermal systems, brake
 hard parts and other friction materials.  

The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
Honeywell s senior management evaluates segment performance based on segment
profit. Segment profit is measured as business unit income (loss) before taxes
excluding general corporate unallocated expense, other income (expense),
interest and other financial charges, pension and other postretirement benefits
(expense), stock compensation expense, repositioning and other charges and
accounting changes.  

  107  

108  

A reconciliation of segment profit to
consolidated income from continuing operations before taxes are as follows:  

(1) Equity income/(loss) of affiliated companies is included in
 Segment Profit.  

(2) Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and
 selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Note
24. Geographic Areas - Financial Data   

(1) Sales between geographic areas approximate market and are not
significant. Net sales are classified according to their country of origin.
Included in United States net sales are export sales of $4,549, $3,629 and
$3,548 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

  (2) Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment,
goodwill and other intangible assets.  

   Note
25. Supplemental Cash Flow Information   

  109  

Note 26. Unaudited Quarterly Financial
Information   

  110  

(1) For the year ended December 31, 2011,
Income from discontinued operations includes a $178 million, net of tax gain,
resulting from the sale of the CPG business which funded a portion of the 2011
repositioning actions.  

  111  

R  eport
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  T O THE  B OARD OF  D IRECTORS AND  S HAREHOLDERS OF  H ONEYWELL  I NTERNATIONAL 
I NC .;   

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Honeywell International Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
listed in the index appearing under item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements and the financial statement
schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
financial statements, on the financial statement schedule and on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

  Florham Park, New Jersey 
February 17, 2012  

  112  

I  tem 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with
 Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

Not
Applicable  

I  tem 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   

Honeywell
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form
10-K to ensure information required to be disclosed in the reports that
Honeywell files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities
and Exchange Commission rules and forms and that it is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief
Financial Officer and our Controller, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. There have been no changes that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Honeywell s internal
control over financial reporting that have occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2011.  

    Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting    

            Honeywell
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Honeywell s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Honeywell s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that:  

(i)
 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
 and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of Honeywell s assets;  

(ii)
 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
 permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
 accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
 company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Honeywell s
 management and directors; and  

(iii)
 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
 unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Honeywell s assets that could
 have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

            Management
assessed the effectiveness of Honeywell s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework .  

            Based on
this assessment, management determined that Honeywell maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.  

            The
effectiveness of Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

  113  

I  tem 9B.   

Other Information   

Not
 Applicable  

I  tem 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the
 Registrant   

Information
relating to the Directors of Honeywell, as well as information relating to
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, will be
contained in our definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of the
Directors, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not
later than 120 days after December 31, 2011, and such information is
incorporated herein by reference. Certain other information relating to the
Executive Officers of Honeywell appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form
10-K under the heading  Executive Officers of the Registrant .  

            The members
of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors are: George Paz (Chair), Kevin
Burke, Scott Davis, Linnet Deily, and Judd Gregg. The Board has determined that
Mr. Paz is the  audit committee financial expert  as defined by applicable SEC
rules and that Mr. Paz, Mr. Davis, and Ms. Deily satisfy the  accounting or
related financial management expertise  criteria established by the NYSE. All
members of the Audit Committee are  independent  as that term is defined in
applicable SEC Rules and NYSE listing standards.  

            Honeywell s
Code of Business Conduct is available, free of charge, on our website under the
heading  Investor Relations  (see  Corporate Governance ), or by writing to
Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962, c/o Vice
President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell s Code of Business Conduct applies
to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Controller) and employees. Amendments to or waivers of
the Code of Business Conduct granted to any of Honeywell s directors or
executive officers will be published on our website within five business days
of such amendment or waiver.  

I  tem 11.   

Executive Compensation   

Information
relating to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy Statement referred
to above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

I  tem 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
 Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

Information
relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and
related stockholder matters is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to
above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,  and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

   EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS   

            As of December 31, 2011 information about our equity compensation plans
is as follows:  

  114  

(1)  

Equity
 compensation plans approved by shareowners that are included in column (a) of
 the table are the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and its Affiliates (the  2011 Stock Incentive Plan ), the 2006 Stock
 Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (the  2006
 Stock Incentive Plan ), the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell
 International Inc. and its Affiliates (the  2003 Stock Incentive Plan )
 and the 1993 Stock Plan for Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its
 Affiliates (the  1993 Stock Plan ) (38,562,720 shares of Common Stock
 to be issued for options with a weighted average term of 6.27 years; 31,150
 shares to be issued for stock appreciation rights ( SARs  9,746,433
 RSUs subject to continued employment; 130,891 performance shares subject to
 continued employment; and 1,092,879 deferred RSUs of earned and vested awards
 where delivery of shares has been deferred); and the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
 Directors of Honeywell International Inc. (the  2006 Non-Employee Director
 Plan ) and
 the 1994 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International
 Inc. (the  1994 Non-Employee Director Plan ) (322,000 shares of Common
 Stock to be issued for options; and 9,000 RSUs subject to continued services).
 RSUs included in column (a) of the table represent the full number of RSUs awarded
 and outstanding whereas the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued
 upon vesting will be lower than what is reflected on the table due to the net
 share settlement process used by the Company (whereas the value of shares
 required to meet employee statutory minimum tax withholding requirements are
 not issued).  

1,266,309 growth
 plan units were issued for the performance cycle commencing on January 1,
 2010 and ending December 31, 2011 pursuant to the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan.
 The ultimate value of any growth plan award may be paid in cash or shares of
 Common Stock and, thus, growth plan units are not included in the table
 above. The ultimate value of growth plan units depends upon the achievement
 of pre-established performance goals during the two-year performance cycle.
 50% of the payment related to these growth plan units will be paid in March
 2012 and the remaining 50% will be paid in March 2013, subject to active
 employment on the payment dates.  

Because the number
 of future shares that may be distributed to employees participating in the
 Honeywell Global Stock Plan is unknown, no shares attributable to that plan
 are included in column (a) of the table above.  

(2)  

Column (b) relates
 to stock options and does not include any exercise price for RSUs,
 performance shares, or growth plan units granted to employees or non-employee
 directors under equity compensation plans approved by shareowners. RSUs do
 not have an exercise price because their value is dependent upon attainment
 of certain performance goals or continued employment or service and they are
 settled for shares of Common Stock on a one-for-one basis. Growth plan units
 are denominated in cash units and the ultimate value of the award is
 dependent upon attainment of certain performance goals.  

(3)  

The number of
 shares that may be issued under the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan as of December
 31, 2011 is 39,582,132 which includes the following additional shares under
 the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (or any Prior   

115  

Plan as defined in
 the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan) that may again be available for issuance:
 shares that are settled for cash, expire, are canceled, are tendered in
 satisfaction of an option exercise price or tax withholding obligations, are
 reacquired with cash tendered in satisfaction of an option exercise price or
 with monies attributable to any tax deduction enjoyed by Honeywell to the
 exercise of an option, and are under any outstanding awards assumed under any
 equity compensation plan of an entity acquired by Honeywell. No securities
 are available for future issuance under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, the
 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, the 1993 Stock Plan, or the 1994 Non-Employee
 Director Plan.  

The number of
 shares that may be issued under the Honeywell Global Stock Plan as of
 December 31, 2011 is 2,384,352. This plan is an umbrella plan for four plans
 maintained solely for eligible employees of participating non-U.S. countries.
 More than 50% of the shares distributed under the Honeywell Global Stock Plan
 have been distributed to participants in one sub-plan, the Global Employee
 Stock Purchase Plan. As of January 1, 2011, the Global Employee Stock
 Purchase Plan was suspended, although company matching shares awarded to
 participants in 2008 vested in November 2011.  

Another sub-plan
 of the Honeywell Global Stock Plan, the UK Sharebuilder Plan, allows an
 eligible UK employee to contribute a specified percentage of taxable earnings
 that is then invested in shares. The company matches those shares and
 dividends paid are used to purchase additional shares. The
 company increased the match share percentage from 50% to 62.50% effective
 March 1, 2011. Matched shares are subject to a three-year vesting schedule.
 Shares taken out of the plan before five years lose their tax-favored status.
 For the year ending December 31, 2011, 105,015 shares were credited to
 participants  accounts under the UK Sharebuilder Plan.  

The remaining two
 sub-plans of the Honeywell Global Stock Plan, the Honeywell International
 Technologies Employees Share Ownership Plan (Ireland) and the Honeywell
 Measurex (Ireland) Limited Group Employee Profit Sharing Scheme, allow
 eligible Irish employees to contribute specified percentages of base pay,
 bonus or performance pay that are then invested in shares. Shares must be
 held in trust for at least two years and lose their tax-favored status if
 they are taken out of the plan before three years. For the year ending
 December 31, 2011, 23,881 shares were credited to participants  accounts
 under these two plans.  

The remaining
 229,000 shares included in column (c) are shares remaining for future grants
 under the 2006 Non-Employee Director Plan.  

(4)  

Equity
 compensation plans not approved by shareowners that are included in the table
 are the Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated
 Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Subsidiaries, and the
 AlliedSignal Incentive Compensation Plan for Executive Employees of
 AlliedSignal Inc. and its Subsidiaries.  

The Supplemental
 Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees of Honeywell
 International Inc. and its Subsidiaries is an unfunded, non-tax qualified
 plan that provides benefits equal to the employee deferrals and company matching
 allocations that would have been provided under Honeywell s U.S.
 tax-qualified savings plan if the Internal Revenue Code limitations on
 compensation and contributions did not apply. The company matching
 contribution is credited to participants  accounts in the form of notional
 shares of Common Stock. The notional shares are distributed in the form of
 actual shares of Common Stock when payments are made to participants under
 the plan. The number of shares to be issued under this plan based on the value
 of the notional shares as of December 31, 2011 is 592,957.   

The AlliedSignal
 Incentive Compensation Plan for Executive Employees of AlliedSignal Inc. and
 its Subsidiaries was a cash incentive compensation plan maintained by
 AlliedSignal Inc. This plan has expired. Employees were permitted to defer
 receipt of a cash bonus payable under the plan and invest the deferred bonus
 in notional shares of Common Stock. The notional shares are distributed in
 the form of actual shares of Common Stock when payments are made to
 participants under the plan. No further deferrals can be made under this
 plan. The number of shares of Common Stock that remain to be issued under
 this expired plan as of December 31, 2011 is 33,911.  

The Deferred
 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc.
 provides for mandatory and elective deferral of certain payments to
 non-employee directors. Mandatory deferrals are invested in notional shares
 of Common Stock. Directors may also invest any elective deferrals in notional
 shares of Common Stock. Because the notional shares are distributed in the
 form of cash when payments are made to directors under the plan, they are not
 included in the table above.   

116  

(5)  

Column (b) does
 not include any exercise price for notional shares allocated to employees
 under Honeywell s equity compensation plans not approved by shareowners
 because all of these shares are notionally allocated as a matching
 contribution under the non-tax qualified savings plans or as a notional
 investment of deferred bonuses or fees under the cash incentive compensation
 and directors  plans as described in note 4 and are only settled for shares
 of Common Stock on a one-for-one basis.  

(6)  

No securities are
 available for future issuance under the AlliedSignal Incentive Compensation
 Plan for Executive Employees of AlliedSignal Inc. and its Subsidiaries and
 the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell
 International Inc. The cash incentive compensation plan has expired. All
 notional investments in shares of Common Stock are converted to cash when
 payments are made under the directors  plan. The amount of securities
 available for future issuance under the Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings
 Plan for Highly Compensated Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its
 Subsidiaries is not determinable because the number of securities that may be
 issued under this plan depends upon the amount deferred to the plan by
 participants in future years.  

The table does not
 contain information for employee benefit plans of Honeywell that are intended
 to meet the requirements of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and a
 small number of foreign employee benefit plans that are similar to such
 Section 401(a) plans.  

I  tem 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related
 Transactions   

Information
relating to certain relationships and related transactions is contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant,  and such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

I  tem 14.   

Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

Information
relating to fees paid to and services performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in 2011 and 2010 and our Audit Committee s pre-approval policies and procedures
with respect to non-audit services are contained in the Proxy Statement
referred to above in  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,  and such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

  117  

I  tem 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

118  

S  IGNATURES   

            Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.  

H ONEYWELL  I NTERNATIONAL  I NC .  

Date: February 17, 2012  

By:  

/s/ Kathleen A. Winters   

Kathleen A. Winters  

Vice President and Controller  

(on behalf of the Registrant  

and as the Registrant s  

Principal Accounting Officer)  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated:  

Name   

Name   

*  

*  

David M. Cote  

Linnet F. Deily  

Chairman of the Board,  

Director  

Chief Executive Officer  

and Director  

*  

*  

Gordon M. Bethune  

Clive R. Hollick  

Director  

Director  

*  

*  

Kevin Burke  

George Paz  

Director  

Director  

*  

*  

Jaime Chico Pardo  

Bradley T. Sheares, Ph.D.  

Director  

Director  

*  

*  

D. Scott Davis  

Judd Gregg  

Director  

Director  

/s/ David J. Anderson  

/s/ Kathleen A. Winters  

David J. Anderson  

Kathleen A. Winters  

Senior Vice President and  

Vice President and
 Controller  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Accounting
 Officer)  

(Principal Financial
 Officer)  

*By:  

/s/ David J. Anderson  

(David J. Anderson  

Attorney-in-fact)  

February 17, 2012  

119  

E  XHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibit No.   

Description   

3(i)  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
 Honeywell International Inc., as amended April 26, 2010 (incorporated by
 reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed April 27, 2010)  

3(ii)  

By-laws of Honeywell International Inc., as amended April
 26, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Honeywell s Form 8-K
 filed April 27, 2010)  

4  

Honeywell International Inc. is a party to several
 long-term debt instruments under which, in each case, the total amount of
 securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Honeywell
 and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 4(iii)(A)
 of Item 601(b) of Regulation S-K, Honeywell agrees to furnish a copy of such
 instruments to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.  

10.1*  

2003 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and its Affiliates (incorporated by reference to Honeywell s Proxy Statement,
 dated March 17, 2003, filed pursuant to Rule 14a-6 of the Securities and
 Exchange Act of 1934), and amended by Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K
 filed December 21, 2004, Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2006 and Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the
 year ended December 31, 2008  

10.2*  

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
 Honeywell International Inc., as amended and restated (incorporated by
 reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for quarter ended June 30,
 2003), and amended by Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed December 21,
 2004 and Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December
 31, 2005  

10.3*  

Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of AlliedSignal
 Inc., as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Honeywell s
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003), and amended by Exhibit 10.2
 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and Exhibit 10.1
 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008  

10.4*  

Honeywell International Inc. Incentive Compensation Plan
 for Executive Employees, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference
 to Honeywell s Proxy Statement, dated March 10, 2011, filed pursuant to Rule
 14a-6 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934)  

10.5*  

Supplemental Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly
 Compensated Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Subsidiaries,
 as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to
 Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008), and amended by
 Exhibit 10.5 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010  

10.6*  

Honeywell International Inc. Severance Plan for Senior
 Executives, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
 10.7 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008), and
 amended by Exhibit 10.7 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December
 31, 2009  

10.7*  

Salary and Incentive Award Deferral Plan for Selected
 Employees of Honeywell International Inc., and its Affiliates, as amended and
 restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Honeywell s Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 2008)  

10.8*  

1993 Stock Plan for Employees of Honeywell International
 Inc. and its Affiliates, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A
 to Honeywell s Proxy Statement, dated March 10, 1994, filed pursuant to Rule
 14a-6 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934), and amended by Exhibit
 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed December 21, 2004, Exhibit 10.9 to
 Honeywell s Form 10-K for   

120  

121  

122  

Exhibit No.   

Description   

10.35*  

Employee Non-Competition Agreement dated October 26, 2010
 for Andreas Kramvis (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to
 Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010)  

10.36*  

2006 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and its Affiliates   Form of Restricted Unit Agreement, Form 2 (incorporated
 by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 June 30, 2010)  

10.37*  

2006 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and Its Affiliates Form of Option Award Agreement, Form 2 (incorporated by
 reference to Exhibit 10.37 to Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2010)  

10.38*  

Letter Agreement dated September 3, 2009 between Honeywell
 and Timothy Mahoney (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to
 Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010)  

10.39*  

Form of Honeywell International Inc. Noncompete Agreement
 for Senior Executives (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to
 Honeywell s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010))  

10.40*  

2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and its Affiliates (incorporated by reference to Honeywell s Proxy Statement,
 dated March 10, 2011, filed pursuant to Rule 14a-6 of the Securities and
 Exchange Act of 1934)  

10.41*  

2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and its Affiliates Form of Restricted Unit Agreement (incorporated by
 reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
 30, 2011)  

10.42*  

2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and Its Affiliates Form of Option Award Agreement (filed herewith)  

10.43*  

2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc.
 and Its Affiliates Form of Growth Plan Agreement (filed herewith)  

10.44*  

Letter Agreement dated August 4, 2011 between Honeywell
 International Inc. and David M. Cote (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011)  

10.45  

Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 2011 by
 and among Honeywell International Inc., the banks, financial institutions and
 other institutional lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as
 administrative agent, Citibank International PLC, as swing line agent,
 JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A.,
 Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, Goldman Sachs Bank USA,
 Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, as
 documentation agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan
 Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and co- book managers (incorporated
 by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s 8-K filed April 4, 2011)  

10.46  

Purchase and Sale Agreement between Catalysts, Adsorbents
 and Process Systems, Inc., and Honeywell Specialty Materials, LLC, dated
 September 30, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to Honeywell s
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005)  

10.47  

Stock Purchase Agreement by and between Honeywell
 International Inc. and M F Worldwide Corp. (incorporated by reference to
 Exhibit 2.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed November 1, 2005)  

10.48  

Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 3, 2008 by and among
 Honeywell International Inc., Safety Products Holdings, Inc., the selling
 shareholders party thereto, and Odyssey Investment Services, L.L.C.
 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed
 April 7, 2008)  

123  

Exhibit No.   

Description   

10.49  

Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement dated June 9, 2008, by
 and between Honeywell International Inc. and BE Aerospace, Inc. (incorporated
 by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed June 11, 2008)  

10.50  

Tender Offer Agreement dated May 19, 2010 by and among
 Sperian Protection S.A., Honeywell International Inc. and Honeywell Holding
 France SAS (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010)  

10.51  

Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement dated January 27, 2011
 by and among Honeywell International Inc., Rank Group Limited and Autoparts
 Holdings Limited, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s
 Form 8-K filed January 31, 2011)  

12  

Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
 Charges (filed herewith)  

21  

Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith)  

23  

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (filed herewith)  

24  

Powers of Attorney (filed herewith)  

31.1  

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to
 Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)  

31.2  

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to
 Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)  

32.1  

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to
 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)  

32.2  

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to
 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)  

101.INS  

XBRL Instance Document (furnished herewith)  

101.SCH  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema (furnished herewith)  

101.CAL  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase (furnished
 herewith)  

101.DEF  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase (furnished
 herewith)  

101.LAB  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase (furnished
 herewith)  

101.PRE  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase (furnished
 herewith)  

The Exhibits identified above
 with an asterisk (*) are management contracts or compensatory plans or
 arrangements.  

124  

Honeywell
International Inc.  
    S  CHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
Three Years Ended December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in millions)   

Deferred
 Tax Assets Valuation Allowance   

Balance
 December 31, 2008  

$  

445  

Additions
 charged to income tax expense  

142  

Reductions
 credited to income tax expense  

(30  

)  

Reductions
 charged to deferred tax assets due to expiring NOLs  

3  

Reductions
 charged to deferred tax assets due to capital loss carryforwards  

(9  

)  

Additions
 charged to equity  

27  

Balance
 December 31, 2009  

578  

Additions
 charged to income tax expense  

129  

Reductions
 credited to income tax expense  

(90  

)  

Reductions
 charged to deferred tax asset due to expired NOL  

(7  

)  

Reductions
 charged to deferred tax assets due to capital loss carryforwards  

(1  

)  

Additions
 charged to equity  

(17  

)  

Additions
 charged to goodwill  

44  

Balance
 December 31, 2010  

636  

Additions
 charged to income tax expense  

109  

Reductions
 credited to income tax expense  

(152  

)  

Reductions
 charged to deferred tax asset due to expired NOL  

(8  

)  

Reductions
 charged to deferred tax assets due to capital loss carryforwards  

(5  

)  

Additions
 charged to equity  

(13  

)  

Additions
 charged to goodwill  

24  

Balance
 December 31, 2011  

$  

591  

125  

<EX-10.27>
 3
 c68029_ex10-27.htm

Exhibit 10.27 

AMENDMENT  

  TO THE   

  2006 STOCK PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

OF HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

Pursuant to the authority granted to proper
officers of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ) by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors on December 9, 2011, the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. is hereby
amended effective January 1, 2012 by replacing Schedule A in its entirety with the attached new Schedule A. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC. 

/s/ Mark James 

Mark James 

Senior Vice President   Human Resources and  Communications 

Dated: December 13, 2011  

SCHEDULE A  

  BOARD POLICY FOR NON-EMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR EQUITY AWARDS  

  Grant of Restricted Units . Each Eligible
Director first elected or appointed to the Board on or after September 26, 2008 will receive a grant of 3,000 Restricted Units
effective as of the first date the Eligible Director is elected or appointed to the Board. The Restricted Units shall vest on the
earliest of the Participant s fifth anniversary of continuous service as a director of the Company, the Participant s
death or disability or the occurrence of a Change in Control. The Participant may defer receipt of payment of such Restricted Units
on substantially the same terms and conditions as officers of the Company with respect to grants of restricted units they receive. 

  Annual Grants of Stock Options and Restricted
Units . Subject to any limitations set forth in the Plan, each Eligible Director who continues in office following the Annual
Meeting of Shareowners will receive equity grants with a total target value of $75,000. 50% of the value ($37,500) will be granted
in Stock Options and the remaining 50% of the value ($37,500) will be granted in Restricted Units, with the number of Shares subject
to each grant determined by dividing the value by the Fair Market Value as of the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareowners and
rounded up to the nearest whole Share. 

 The grant of Stock Options shall have an Exercise
Price equal to the Fair Market Value as of the date of grant and will vest in cumulative installments of 25% on April 1 of the
first year following the date of grant, an additional 25% on April 1 of the second and third years following the date of grant,
and the remaining 25% on April 1 of the fourth year following the date of grant. The grant of Restricted Units shall vest on the
earliest of the Participant s third anniversary of the date of grant, the Participant s death or disability or the
occurrence of a Change in Control.  

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.42>
 4
 c68029_ex10-42.htm

Exhibit 10.42  

   2011 Stock Incentive Plan 
of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates   

   Stock Option Award Agreement   

            STOCK
OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT made in Morris Township, New Jersey, as of the [DATE]
(the  Date of Grant ), between Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ) and
 __________________ 
(the  Employee ).  

1.   

Grant of Option.  The Company has granted you an Option to purchase  ________ 
 Shares of Common Stock, subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the
 2011 Stock Incentive Plan for Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and
 its Affiliates (the  Plan ). This Option is a nonqualified Option.  

2.   

Exercise Price.  The purchase price of the Shares covered by the Option will be  _____  per
 Share.  

3.   

Vesting.  Except in the event of your death or Disability or the occurrence of
 a Change in Control, the Option will become exercisable as follows: [DESCRIBE
 VESTING PROVISIONS CONSISTENT WITH THE PLAN].  

4.   

Term of Option.  The Option must be exercised prior to the close of the New York
 Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) on [EXPIRATION DATE], subject to earlier termination
 or cancellation as provided below. If the NYSE is not open for business on
 the expiration date specified, the Option will expire at the close of the
 NYSE on the business day immediately preceding [EXPIRATION DATE].  

5.   

Payment of Exercise Price.  You may pay the Exercise Price by
 cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer, postal or express money
 order, or any other alternative method specified in the Plan and expressly
 approved by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may not tender
 any form of payment that the Committee determines, in its sole and absolute
 discretion, could violate any law or regulation.   

6.   

Exercise of Option.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Option
 may be exercised by contacting the Honeywell Stock Option Service Center,
 managed by Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, by telephone at 1-888-723-3391 or
 1-210-677-3660, or on the internet at  www.benefitaccess.com . If the
 Option is exercised after your death, the Company will deliver Shares only
 after the Committee has determined that the person exercising the Option is
 the duly appointed executor or administrator of your estate or the person to
 whom the Option has been transferred by your will or by the applicable laws
 of descent and distribution.  

7.   

Termination,
 Retirement, Disability or Death.  The Option will
 vest and remain exercisable as follows:  

Event   

Vesting   

Exercise   

Death  

Immediate vesting as of death.  

Expires earlier of (i) original expiration date, or (ii) 3 years
 after death.  

Disability  

Immediate vesting as of incurrence of Disability.  

Expires earlier of (i) original expiration date, or (ii) 3 years
 after Disability.  

Full
 Retirement 
 (Termination of Employment on or after age 60 and 10 Years of Service)  

Unvested Awards forfeited as of Full Retirement.  

Expires earlier of (i) original expiration date, or (ii) 3 years
 after retirement.  

Early
 Retirement 
 (Termination of Employment on or after age 55 and 10 Years of Service)  

Unvested Awards forfeited as of Early Retirement.  

Expires earlier of (i) original expiration date, or (ii) 3 years
 after retirement.   

Voluntary
 termination  

Unvested Awards forfeited as of Termination of Employment.  

Expires earlier of (i) original expiration date, or (ii) 30 days
 after termination.   

Involuntary
 termination not for Cause  

Unvested Awards forfeited as of Termination of Employment.  

Expires earlier of (i) original expiration date, or (ii) 1 year after
 termination.   

Involuntary
 termination for Cause  

Unvested Awards forfeited as of Termination of Employment.  

Vested Awards immediately cancelled.  

Except as expressly provided herein, all rights hereunder shall cease
 to accrue, and you will forfeit the unvested portion of this Award and all
 rights to continue vesting in the Award as of your Termination of Employment.
 Further, you will not be entitled to receive additional awards hereunder
 after your Termination of Employment.  

8.   

Change in Control.  In the event of a Change in Control, any portion of the Option that
 has not vested as of the date of Change in Control will immediately become
 exercisable in full.  

9.   

Withholdings.  The Company or your local employer shall have the power and
 the right to deduct or withhold, or require you to remit to the Company or
 your local employer, an amount sufficient to satisfy taxes imposed under the
 laws of any country, state, province, city or other jurisdiction, including
 but not limited to income taxes, capital gain taxes, transfer taxes, and
 social security contributions, and National Insurance Contributions, that are
 required by law to be withheld with respect to the grant of the Option, any
 exercise of the your rights under this Agreement, the sale of Shares acquired
 from the exercise of the Option, and/or payment of dividends on Shares
 acquired pursuant to the Option.  

2  

10.   

Transfer of Option.  You may not transfer the Option or any interest in the Option except
 by will or the laws of descent and distribution or except as permitted by the
 Committee and as specified in the Plan.  

11.   

Requirements for and Forfeiture of Award.   

a.   

General.  The Award is expressly contingent upon you complying with the terms,
 conditions and definitions contained in this Section 11 and in any other
 agreement that governs your noncompetition with Honeywell, your
 nonsolicitation of Honeywell s employees, customers, suppliers, business
 partners and vendors, and/or your conduct with respect to Honeywell s trade
 secrets and proprietary and confidential information. For purposes of this
 Section 11, the term  Honeywell  is defined as Honeywell International Inc.
 (a Delaware corporation having a place of business at Columbia Road and Park
 Avenue, Morris Township, Morris County, New Jersey), its predecessors,
 designees and successors, as well as its past, present and future operating
 companies, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates and other business units,
 including businesses acquired by purchase of assets, stock, merger or
 otherwise.   

b.   

Remedies.    

1.   

You expressly agree and
 acknowledge that the forfeiture provisions of subsection 11.b.2. of this
 Agreement shall apply if, from the Award Date until the date that is
 twenty-four (24) months after your Termination of Employment for any reason,
 you enter into an employment, consultation or similar agreement or
 arrangement (including any arrangement for service as an agent, partner,
 stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person
 engaged in a business in which Honeywell is engaged if the business is
 competitive (in the sole judgment of the Committee) with Honeywell and the
 Committee has not approved the agreement or arrangement in writing.  

2.   

In addition to the relief
 described in any other agreement that governs your noncompetition with
 Honeywell, your nonsolicitation of Honeywell s employees, customers,
 suppliers, business partners and vendors, and/or your conduct with respect to
 Honeywell s trade secrets and proprietary and confidential information, if
 the Committee determines, in its sole judgment, that you have violated the
 terms of any such agreement or you have engaged in an act that violates
 subsection 11.b.1. of this Agreement, (i) any portion of the Option you have
 not exercised (whether vested or unvested) shall immediately be cancelled,
 and you shall forfeit any rights you have with respect to the Option as of
 the date of the Committee s determination, and (ii) you shall immediately
 deliver to the Company Shares equal in value to the gross amount of any
 profit you realized upon an exercise of the Option during the period
 beginning twelve (12) months prior to your Termination of Employment and
 ending on the date of the Committee s determination.  

3.   

Notwithstanding anything in
 the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, you acknowledge that the Company
 may be entitled or required by law, Company policy or the requirements of an
 exchange on which the Shares are listed for  

3  

trading, to recoup compensation paid to you
 pursuant to the Plan, and you agree to comply with any Company request or
 demand for recoupment.  

12.   

Adjustments.  Any
 adjustments to the Option will be governed by Section 5.3 of the Plan.   

13.   

Restrictions on Exercise.  Exercise of
 the Option is subject to the conditions that, to the extent required at the
 time of exercise, (i) the Shares covered by the Option will be duly listed,
 upon official notice of issuance, upon the NYSE, and (ii) a Registration
 Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the Shares will be
 effective. The Company will not be required to deliver any Common Stock until
 all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with
 and all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the
 Shares have been approved by counsel of the Company.  

14.   

Disposition of Securities.  By
 accepting the Award, you acknowledge that you have read and understand the
 Company s policy, and are aware of and understand your obligations under U.S.
 federal securities laws in respect of trading in the Company s securities,
 and you agree not to use the Company s  cashless exercise  program (or any
 successor program) at any time when you possess material nonpublic
 information with respect to the Company or when using the program would
 otherwise result in a violation of securities law. The Company will have the
 right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit
 realized on the exercise of the Option or by the disposition of Shares
 received upon exercise of the Option to the extent that the Company has a
 right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.  

15.   

Plan Terms Govern.  The
 exercise of the Option, the disposition of any Shares received upon exercise
 of the Option, and the treatment of any gain on the disposition of these
 Shares are subject to the terms of the Plan and any rules that the Committee
 may prescribe. The Plan document, as may be amended from time to time, is
 incorporated into this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement
 have the meaning set forth in the Plan, unless otherwise stated in this
 Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan and the
 terms of this Agreement, the Plan will control unless otherwise stated in
 this Agreement. By accepting the Award, you acknowledge receipt of the Plan
 and the prospectus, as in effect on the date of this Agreement.  

16.   

Personal Data.    

a.   

By entering into this Agreement, and as a
 condition of the grant of the Option, you expressly consent to the
 collection, use, and transfer of personal data as described in this Section
 to the full extent permitted by and in full compliance with applicable law.   

b.   

You understand that your local employer
 holds, by means of an automated data file, certain personal information about
 you, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number,
 date of birth, social insurance number, salary, nationality, job title, any
 shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or other
 entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested,  

4  

unvested, or outstanding in your favor, for
 the purpose of managing and administering the Plan ( Data ).  

c.   

You further understand that part or all of
 your Data may be also held by the Company or its Affiliates, pursuant to a
 transfer made in the past with your consent, in respect of any previous grant
 of options or awards, which was made for the same purposes of managing and
 administering of previous award/incentive plans, or for other purposes.   

d.   

You further understand that your local
 employer will transfer Data to the Company or its Affiliates among themselves
 as necessary for the purposes of implementation, administration, and
 management of your participation in the Plan, and that the Company or its
 Affiliates may transfer data among themselves, and/or each, in turn, further
 transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the
 implementation, administration, and management of the Plan ( Data
 Recipients ).   

e.   

You understand that the Company or its
 Affiliates, as well as the Data Recipients, are or may be located in your
 country of residence or elsewhere, such as the United States. You authorize
 the Company or its Affiliates, as well as the Data Recipients, to receive,
 possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the
 purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in
 the Plan, including any transfer of such Data, as may be required for the
 administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares on your
 behalf, to a broker or third party with whom the Shares may be deposited.   

f.   

You understand that you may show your
 opposition to the processing and transfer of your Data, and, may at any time,
 review the Data, request that any necessary amendments be made to it, or
 withdraw your consent herein in writing by contacting the Company. You
 further understand that withdrawing consent may affect your ability to
 participate in the Plan.  

17.   

Discretionary Nature and
 Acceptance   of Award. 
 By accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement
 and acknowledge that:  

a.   

The Company (and not your local employer) is
 granting your Option. Furthermore, this Agreement is not derived from any
 preexisting labor relationship between you and the Company, but rather from a
 mercantile relationship.   

b.   

The Company may administer the Plan from
 outside your country of residence and United States law will govern all
 options granted under the Plan.   

c.   

Benefits and rights provided under the Plan
 are wholly discretionary and, although provided by the Company, do not
 constitute regular or periodic payments.   

d.   

The benefits and rights provided under the
 Plan are not to be considered part of your salary or compensation under your
 employment with your local employer for purposes of calculating any
 severance, resignation, redundancy or other end of service payments,
 vacation, bonuses, long-term service awards, indemnification,  

5  

pension or retirement benefits, or any other
 payments, benefits or rights of any kind. You waive any and all rights to
 compensation or damages as a result of the termination of employment with
 your local employer for any reason whatsoever insofar as those rights result,
 or may result, from the loss or diminution in value of such rights under the
 Plan or your ceasing to have any rights under, or ceasing to be entitled to
 any rights under, the Plan as a result of such termination.  

e.   

The grant of the Option hereunder, and any
 future grant of an option under the Plan, is entirely voluntary, and at the
 complete discretion of the Company. Neither the grant of the Option nor any
 future grant by the Company will be deemed to create any obligation to make
 any future grants, whether or not such a reservation is explicitly stated at
 the time of such a grant. The Company has the right, at any time and/or on an
 annual basis, to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however,
 that no such amendment, suspension, or termination will adversely affect your
 rights hereunder.   

f.   

The Plan will not be deemed to constitute,
 and will not be construed by you to constitute, part of the terms and
 conditions of employment. Neither the Company nor your local employer will
 incur any liability of any kind to you as a result of any change or
 amendment, or any cancellation, of the Plan at any time.  

g.   

Participation in the Plan will not be deemed
 to constitute, and will not be deemed by you to constitute, an employment or
 labor relationship of any kind with the Company.  

18.   

Limitations.  Nothing in
 this Agreement or the Plan gives you any right to continue in the employ of
 the Company or any of its Affiliates or to interfere in any way with the
 right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate your employment at any
 time. Payment of Shares is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or
 other funding medium, and you do not have any interest in any fund or
 specific asset of the Company by reason of the Option. You have no rights as
 a shareowner of the Company pursuant to the Option until Shares are actually
 delivered you.  

19.   

Incorporation of Other
 Agreements.  This Agreement and the Plan constitute the
 entire understanding between you and the Company regarding the Option. This
 Agreement supersedes any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations
 concerning the Option.  

20.   

Severability.  The
 invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not
 affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of the
 Agreement, which will remain in full force and effect. Moreover, if any
 provision is found to be excessively broad in duration, scope or covered
 activity, the provision will be construed so as to be enforceable to the
 maximum extent compatible with applicable law.  

21.   

Governing Law.  The Plan,
 this Agreement, and all determinations made and actions taken under the Plan
 or this Agreement shall be governed by the internal substantive laws, and not
 the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware and construed accordingly,
 to the extent not superseded by applicable federal law.  

6  

22.   

Acknowledgements.  By
 accepting this Agreement, you agree to the following: (i) you have carefully
 read, fully understand and agree to all of the terms and conditions described
 in this Agreement, the Plan, the Plan s prospectus and all accompanying
 documentation; and (ii) you understand and agree that this Agreement and the
 Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company
 regarding the Option, and that any prior agreements, commitments or
 negotiations concerning the Option are replaced and superseded.   

23.   

Award Acceptance.  To retain
 this Award, you must accept it by signing the Agreement below and, by signing
 this Agreement, you will be deemed to consent to the application of the terms
 and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. If you do not wish
 to accept this Award, you must contact Honeywell International Inc.,
 Executive Compensation/AB-1D, 101 Columbia Road, Morristown, New Jersey 07962
 in writing within thirty (30) days of the Award Date.  

I
 Accept:   

Signature  

Date  

7  

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.43>
 5
 c68029_ex10-43.htm

Exhibit 10.43  

   2011 Stock Incentive Plan 
 
of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates   

   Growth Plan Agreement   

            GROWTH
PLAN AGREEMENT made in Morris Township, New Jersey, United States of America,
as of the [DAY] day of [MONTH, YEAR] (the  Award Date ) between Honeywell
International Inc. (which together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, when
the context so indicates, is hereinafter referred to as the  Company ) and
[EMPLOYEE NAME] (the  Employee ).  

1.    

Grant of Awards.  The Company
has granted to you [NUMBER] Growth Plan Units, subject to the terms of this
Agreement and the terms of the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell
International Inc. and Its Affiliates (the  Plan ).   

2.    

Target and Actual Award.  The
number of Growth Plan Units awarded to you represents a target award for the
Performance Cycle (as defined below). Each Growth Plan Unit has a target
value of $100 ( Target Value ). Your actual award value (the  Actual Award )
is equal to the product of (i) the Target Value, (ii) the Plan Payout
Percentage, and (iii) the number of Growth Plan Units awarded to you under
this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, the  Plan Payout Percentage 
shall be based on the achievement of the Performance Measures described in
Section 3 below and may range from zero to a maximum of 200%.   

3.    

Performance Measures.  The
Plan Payout Percentage shall be determined based on [PERFORMANCE MEASURES]
(collectively the  Performance Measures ) for the Performance Cycle.
Performance Measures shall be determined at the Company level for eligible
employees not assigned to one of the Company s four strategic business groups
( SBG ), and at both the Company and SBG level for other eligible employees.
For purposes of this determination, if you transfer from one of the Company s
businesses during the Performance Cycle, your award will be prorated for the
number of days actively employed in that business.   

[INCLUDE AS APPLICABLE:
 Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, except in the event
 of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), no Growth Plan
 Unit awards will be paid unless the Company attains a minimum level of
 [PERFORMANCE MEASURE] during the Performance Cycle. The minimum level of
 [PERFORMANCE MEASURE] shall be a [AMOUNT OR PERCENTAGE] over the Performance
 Cycle. In determining [PERFORMANCE MEASURE] for this purpose, the Management
 Development and Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors
 (the  Committee ) shall [INCLUDE AS APPLICABLE: hold share count constant to
 [YEAR] for all periods and] exclude from its calculations unusual,
 infrequently occurring, and extraordinary items [INCLUDE AS APPLICABLE: as
 well as pension expense or pension income recorded] during the Performance
 Cycle.]  

4.    

Performance Cycles.  The two
year performance cycle to which this Agreement applies commences on [DATE]
and ends on [DATE] (the  Performance Cycle ).   

5.    

Timing of Payments.  The
payment of Growth Plan Unit awards is contingent upon (i) the achievement of
the performance criteria outlined in Section 3 above, and (ii) except as
otherwise provided in this Agreement, you remaining actively employed by the
Company on the applicable payment dates. Thus, for example, if you are
receiving pay from the Company but not actively performing services therefore
(including, but not limited to, severance periods, notice periods, and
grandfathered vacation periods), you will not be considered  active  for
purposes of the payment of Growth Plan Unit awards. To the extent a Growth
Plan Unit award is earned, you will receive it in two installments (subject,
of course, to the active employment criteria described herein). One-half of
your Actual Award will be paid in [MONTH, YEAR]; the second half of your
Actual Award will be paid in [MONTH, YEAR]; provided, however, that in no
event will a payment be made later than two and one-half months from the end
of the year in which the payment vests.   

6.    

Form of Payment.  Growth Plan
Units may be paid out in either cash or shares of the Company s common stock
( Shares ), at the discretion of the Committee. Your award will be expressed
in U.S. dollars. Payment shall be made in the same currency as your pay
( Local Currency ). In the event you receive pay in more than one Local
Currency, the currency used for payment will be at the discretion of the
Company or your employer. The Company will normalize your award value for any
fluctuation in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and your Local Currency
using the rate in effect for compensation planning at the beginning of the
Performance Cycle. If your Actual Award is paid in Shares, the number of
Shares shall be determined by dividing the Actual Award by the Fair Market
Value (as defined in the Plan) of the Shares as of the date the Committee
determines the amount of your Actual Award. Fractional Shares will always be
paid in cash. No payment amounts will be credited with interest, and you may
not defer the payment of any awards hereunder.   

7.    

Termination of Employment.  If
your employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than
death [or retirement as provided in Section 8] prior to the date a Growth Plan Unit payment is to
be made pursuant to Section 5 above, any unpaid amounts shall be forfeited
and your rights with respect to any Growth Plan Units will terminate unless
the Committee, or its designee, determines otherwise in its sole and absolute
discretion.   

8.    

Death[, or ]Disability[ or Retirement].  If your employment with the
Company terminates because of death or you incur a Disability (as defined in
the Plan) prior to the first installment payment of your Actual Award, you or
your estate will receive the prorated value of your Actual Award. The
prorated value of the Actual Award shall be determined by multiplying the
Actual Award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days you
were actively employed by the Company during the Performance Cycle prior to
your death or Disability, and the denominator of which is the total number of
days from your first eligibility date during the Performance Cycle through
the last day of the Performance Cycle. Such prorated Actual Award shall be
payable in a single lump sum at the time the first installment payment is
paid to other Growth Plan grantees. If your death or Disability occurs after
the first installment payment of your Actual Award has been made but before
the second installment payment has been made, the Company shall pay the
second installment payment in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the
date of death or Disability.   

[INCLUDE AS APPLICABLE: If you retire from the Company and its
 Affiliates after you attain age 62 with 25 Years of Service (as defined in
 the Plan) and after the Performance Cycle ends, (i) but before the first
 installment of your Actual Award is paid, you will receive  

2  

an amount equal to the sum of (A) the first installment and (B) the
 prorated value of the second installment, or (ii) but before the second
 installment of your Actual Award is paid, you will receive an amount equal to
 the prorated value of the second installment. For purposes of this paragraph,
 the prorated value of the second installment shall be determined by
 multiplying the second installment by a fraction, the numerator of which is
 the number of days you were actively employed by the Company and its
 Affiliates from the January 1st immediately following the end of the
 Performance Cycle to your separation from service date and the denominator of
 which is 439. Subject to Section 19, this amount shall be paid to you as soon
 as practicable following your separation from service with the Company and
 its Affiliates.  

If you retire from the Company and its Affiliates after you attain
 age 64 with 25 Years of Service (as defined in the Plan) and after the
 Performance Cycle ends but before your full Actual Award is paid, you will
 receive an amount equal to the unpaid portion of your Actual Award, which
 subject to Section 19, shall be paid to you as soon as practicable following
 your separation from service with the Company and its Affiliates.]  

9.    

Change in Control.  In the
event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), you will be deemed to have earned an
Actual Award at a Plan Payout Percentage of 100%. In such case, you shall
receive both installments of your Actual Award in a single sum payment no
later than the earlier of 90 days after the date of the Change in Control or
two and one-half months after the end of the calendar year in which the
Change in Control occurs. Such single sum payment may be in cash or Shares,
as determined by the Committee.   

10.    

Change in Status.  If your role within the Company changes during the
Performance Cycle such that you would no longer be eligible to receive Growth
Plan Units, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect as if no
such change had occurred.    

11.    

Requirements for and Forfeiture of Award.   

a.    

General.  The Award is
expressly contingent upon you complying with the terms, conditions and
definitions contained in this Section 11 and in any other agreement that
governs your noncompetition with Honeywell, your nonsolicitation of
Honeywell s employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and vendors,
and/or your conduct with respect to Honeywell s trade secrets and proprietary
and confidential information. For purposes of this Section 11, the term
 Honeywell  is defined as Honeywell International Inc. (a Delaware
corporation having a place of business at Columbia Road and Park Avenue,
Morris Township, Morris County, New Jersey), its predecessors, designees and
successors, as well as its past, present and future operating companies,
divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates and other business units, including
businesses acquired by purchase of assets, stock, merger or otherwise.    

b.    

Remedies.    

1.    

You expressly agree and
 acknowledge that the forfeiture provisions of subsection 11.b.2. of this
 Agreement shall apply if, from the Award Date until the date that is
 twenty-four (24) months after your Termination of Employment for any reason,
 you enter into an employment, consultation or similar agreement or
 arrangement (including any arrangement for service as an agent, partner,
 stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person
 engaged in   

3  

a business in which Honeywell
 is engaged if the business is competitive (in the sole judgment of the
 Committee) with Honeywell and the Committee has not approved the agreement or
 arrangement in writing.  

2.    

In addition to the relief
 described in any other agreement that governs your noncompetition with
 Honeywell, your nonsolicitation of Honeywell s employees, customers,
 suppliers, business partners and vendors, and/or your conduct with respect to
 Honeywell s trade secrets and proprietary and confidential information, if
 the Committee determines, in its sole judgment, that you have violated the
 terms of any such agreement or you have engaged in an act that violates
 subsection 11.b.1. of this Agreement, (i) any Growth Plan payment that has not
 yet been vested, earned or paid under this Agreement shall immediately be
 cancelled, and you shall forfeit any rights you have with respect to such
 payment as of the date of the Committee s determination, and (ii) you shall
 immediately deliver to the Company cash equal in value to the gross Growth
 Plan payment you received under this Agreement during the period beginning
 twelve (12) months prior to your Termination of Employment and ending on the
 date of the Committee s determination.  

3.    

Notwithstanding anything in
 the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, you acknowledge that the Company
 may be entitled or required by law, Company policy or the requirements of an
 exchange on which the Shares are listed for trading, to recoup compensation paid
 to you pursuant to the Plan, and you agree to comply with any Company request
 or demand for recoupment.   

12.    

Withholdings.  The Company or
your local employer shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold,
or require you to remit to the Company or to your local employer, prior to
any issuance or delivery of a Growth Plan payment, an amount sufficient to
satisfy taxes imposed under the laws of any country, state, province, city or
other jurisdiction, including but not limited to income taxes, capital gain
taxes, transfer taxes, and social security contributions, and National
Insurance Contributions, that are required by law to be withheld as
determined by the Company or your local employer.   

13.    

Adjustments.  Any adjustments
to the Growth Plan Units will be governed by Section 5.3 of the Plan.   

14.    

Transfer of Awards.  You may not transfer any interest in your Growth
Plan Units or Actual Award. Any attempt to dispose of your interest in your
Growth Plan Units or Actual Award shall be null and void.   

15.    

Plan Terms Govern.  The
vesting of and payment for Growth Plan Units, the disposition of any Shares
received for Growth Plan Units, and the treatment of gain on the disposition
of any such Shares, are subject to the provisions of the Plan and any rules
that the Committee may prescribe. The Plan document, as may be amended from
time to time, is incorporated into this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in
this Agreement have the meaning set forth in the Plan, unless otherwise stated
in this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan
and the terms of this Agreement, the Plan will control. By accepting the
Award, you acknowledge that the Plan and the Plan prospectus, as in effect on
the date of this Agreement, have been made available to you for your review.   

4  

16.   

Personal Data.   

a.  

By entering into this Agreement, and as a condition of the grant of
 the Growth Plan Units, you expressly consent to the collection, use, and
 transfer of personal data as described in this Section to the full extent permitted
 by and in full compliance with applicable law.   

b.  

You understand that your local employer holds, by means of an
 automated data file, certain personal information about you, including, but
 not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth,
 social insurance number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or
 directorships held in the Company, details of all restricted units or other
 entitlement to shares or cash awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested,
 or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of managing and administering
 the Plan ( Data ).   

c.  

You further understand that part or all of your Data may be also held
 by the Company or its Affiliates, pursuant to a transfer made in the past
 with your consent, in respect of any previous grant of restricted units or
 awards, which was made for the same purposes of managing and administering of
 previous award/incentive plans, or for other purposes.   

d.  

You further understand that your local employer will transfer Data to
 the Company or its Affiliates among themselves as necessary for the purposes
 of implementation, administration, and management of your participation in
 the Plan, and that the Company or its Affiliates may transfer data among
 themselves, and/or each, in turn, further transfer Data to any third parties
 assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management
 of the Plan ( Data Recipients ).   

e.  

You understand that the Company or its Affiliates, as well as the
 Data Recipients, are or may be located in your country of residence or
 elsewhere, such as the United States. You authorize the Company or its
 Affiliates, as well as the Data Recipients, to receive, possess, use, retain,
 and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of
 implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan,
 including any transfer of such Data, as may be required for the
 administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares on your
 behalf, to a broker or third party with whom the Shares may be deposited.   

f.  

You understand that you may show your opposition to the processing
 and transfer of your Data, and, may at any time, review the Data, request
 that any necessary amendments be made to it, or withdraw your consent herein
 in writing by contacting the Company. You further understand that withdrawing
 consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  

17.   

Discretionary Nature and Acceptance of
 Award.  By accepting this Award, you agree to be
 bound by the terms of this Agreement and acknowledge that:  

a.  

The Company (and not your local employer) is granting your Growth
 Plan Units. Furthermore, this Agreement is not derived from any preexisting
 labor relationship between you and the Company, but rather from a mercantile
 relationship.   

5  

b.  

The Company may administer the Plan from outside your country of
 residence and United States law will govern all Growth Plan Units granted
 under the Plan.   

c.  

Benefits and rights provided under the Plan are wholly discretionary
 and, although provided by the Company, do not constitute regular or periodic
 payments.   

d.  

The benefits and rights provided under the Plan are not to be
 considered part of your salary or compensation under your employment with
 your local employer for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation,
 redundancy or other end of service payments, vacation, bonuses, long-term
 service awards, indemnification, pension or retirement benefits, or any other
 payments, benefits or rights of any kind. You waive any and all rights to
 compensation or damages as a result of the termination of employment with
 your local employer for any reason whatsoever insofar as those rights result,
 or may result, from the loss or diminution in value of such rights under the
 Plan or your ceasing to have any rights under, or ceasing to be entitled to
 any rights under, the Plan as a result of such termination.  

e.  

The grant of Growth Plan Units hereunder, and any future grant of
 Growth Plan Units under the Plan, is entirely voluntary, and at the complete
 discretion of the Company. Neither the grant of the Growth Plan Units nor any
 future grant by the Company will be deemed to create any obligation to make
 any future grants, whether or not such a reservation is explicitly stated at
 the time of such a grant. The Company has the right, at any time and/or on an
 annual basis, to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however,
 that except as provided in Section 15, no such amendment, suspension, or
 termination will adversely affect your rights hereunder.   

f.  

The Plan will not be deemed to constitute, and will not be construed
 by you to constitute, part of the terms and conditions of employment. Neither
 the Company nor your local employer will incur any liability of any kind to
 you as a result of any change or amendment, or any cancellation, of the Plan
 at any time.  

g.  

Participation in the Plan will not be deemed to constitute, and will
 not be deemed by you to constitute, an employment or labor relationship of
 any kind with the Company.  

18.   

Limitations.  Nothing in this Agreement or
 the Plan gives you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any
 of its Affiliates or to interfere in any way with the right of the Company or
 any Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. Payment of your
 Growth Plan Units or Actual Award is not secured by a trust, insurance
 contract or other funding medium, and you do not have any interest in any
 fund or specific asset of the Company by reason of this Agreement. You have
 no rights as a shareowner of the Company unless and until Shares are actually
 delivered to you.  

19.   

Agreement Changes. 
 The Company reserves the right to change the terms of this Agreement and the
 Plan without your consent to the extent necessary or desirable to comply with
 the requirements of Code section 409A, the Treasury regulations and other
 guidance thereunder.  

6  

20.   

Incorporation
 of Other Agreements.  This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding
 between you and the Company regarding the Growth Plan Units. This Agreement
 supersedes any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the
 Growth Plan Units.   

21.   

Severability.  The invalidity or unenforceability
 of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or
 enforceability of the other provisions of the Agreement, which will remain in
 full force and effect. Moreover, if any provision is found to be excessively
 broad in duration, scope or covered activity, the provision will be construed
 so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with applicable law.

22.   

Governing Law. 
 The Plan, this Agreement, and all determinations made and actions taken under
 the Plan or this Agreement shall be governed by the internal substantive
 laws, and not the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware and construed
 accordingly, to the extent not superseded by applicable federal law.   

23.   

Acknowledgements.  By accepting this Agreement, you
 agree to the following: (i) you have carefully read, fully understand and
 agree to all of the terms and conditions described in this Agreement, the
 Plan, the Plan s prospectus and all accompanying documentation; and (ii) you
 understand and agree that this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire
 understanding between you and the Company regarding the Growth Plan Units,
 and that any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the
 Growth Plan Units are replaced and superseded.   

24.   

Award Acceptance. 
 To retain this Award, you must accept it by signing the Agreement below and,
 by signing this Agreement, you will be deemed to consent to the application
 of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. If you
 do not wish to accept this Award, you must contact Honeywell International
 Inc., Executive Compensation/AB-1D, 101 Columbia Road, Morristown, New Jersey
 07962 in writing within thirty (30) days of the Award Date.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be duly
executed by the facsimile signature of its Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer as of the Award Date.   

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

By:     /s/ David M. Cote  

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
 Officer  

Employee s
 signature   

7  

</EX-10.43>

<EX-12>
 6
 c68029_ex12.htm

EXHIBIT 12   

   HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     
STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(Dollars in millions)   

(a)  

Denotes the equivalent of an appropriate portion of rentals
 representative of the interest factor on all rentals other than for
 capitalized leases.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 c68029_ex21.htm

EXHIBIT 21   

   HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.     
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT   

Name   

Country or State   
  of Incorporation   

Percent  
 Ownership   

ADI-Gardiner Holding Ltd.  

United Kingdom  

100%  

AlliedSignal Aerospace Service
 Corporation  

Delaware  

100%  

EMS Aviation, Inc.  

New Jersey  

100%  

Grimes Aerospace Company  

Delaware  

100%  

Hand Held Products, Inc  

Delaware  

100%  

Honeywell (China) Co., Ltd.  

China  

100%  

Honeywell Aerospace GmbH  

Germany  

100%  

Honeywell ASCa Inc.  

Canada  

100%  

Honeywell Automation India
 Limited  

India  

81%  

Honeywell Automotive Parts
 Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  

China  

100%  

Honeywell Avionics Systems
 Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

Honeywell
     Co., Ltd.  

Korea  

100%  

Honeywell Control Systems
 Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

Honeywell Deutschland GmbH  

Germany  

100%  

Honeywell Electronic Materials,
 Inc.  

Washington  

100%  

Honeywell Europe NV  

Belgium  

100%  

Honeywell Finance LP  

Delaware  

100%  

Honeywell Garrett S.A.  

France  

100%  

Honeywell
     Holdings Pty. Ltd.  

Australia  

100%  

Honeywell International SarL  

Switzerland  

100%  

Honeywell Japan Inc.  

Japan  

100%  

Honeywell Korea, Ltd.  

Korea  

100%  

Honeywell Limited Honeywell
 Limitee  

Canada  

100%  

Honeywell Luxembourg Holding
 S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

100%  

Honeywell Pte. Ltd.  

Singapore  

100%  

Honeywell Specialty Chemicals
 Seelze GmbH  

Germany  

100%  

Honeywell
     spol. sr.o.  

Czech Republic  

100%  

Honeywell Technologies Sarl  

Switzerland  

100%  

Honeywell Technology Solutions
 Inc.  

Delaware  

100%  

Honeywell Technology Solutions
 Lab Pvt. Ltd.  

India  

100%  

Honeywell UK Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

Life Safety Distribution AG  

Switzerland  

100%  

LXE Inc.  

Georgia  

100%  

Maxon Corporation  

Indiana  

100%  

Metrologic Instruments Inc.  

New Jersey  

100%  

Norcross Safety Products
 L.L.C.  

Delaware  

100%  

Novar ED S Limited  

United Kingdom  

100%  

Sperian Protection Americas
 Inc.  

Delaware  

100%  

Sperian Protection Europe SAS  

France  

100%  

UOP LLC  

Delaware  

100%  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 c68029_ex23.htm

EXHIBIT 23   

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement on Form S 3 (No.033-55425, 333-22355, 333-101455 and 333-165036),
Form S-8 (No. 033-51455, 033-58347, 333-57515, 333-57517, 333-57519, 333-83511,
333-49280, 333-57868, 333-105065, 333-108461, 333-136083, 333-136086, 333-146932,
333-148995, and 333-175260) and Form S-4 (No. 333-82049) of Honeywell
International Inc. of our report dated February 17, 2012 relating to the financial
statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10 K.  

  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Florham Park, New Jersey 
February 17, 2012  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 9
 c68029_ex24.htm

Exhibit
24   

    POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

            Each
of the undersigned, as a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the
 Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints David M. Cote, Katherine L.
Adams, David J. Anderson, Kathleen A. Winters, Thomas F. Larkins and John J.
Tus, each with power to act without the other and with power of substitution
and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact and agent for me and in my name,
place and stead in any and all capacities,  

(i)          to
 sign the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange
 Act of 1934 for the year ended December 31, 2011,  

(ii)          to
 sign any amendment to the Annual Report referred to in (i) above, and  

(iii)         to
 file the documents described in (i) and (ii) above and all exhibits thereto
 and any and all other documents in connection therewith,   

granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent
full power and authority to do and perform every act and thing requisite,
necessary or desirable to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all
intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their
or his or her substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.  

            This
Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which
shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and
hereto were upon the same instrument.   

/s/ Gordon M. Bethune  

/s/ Judd Gregg  

Gordon M. Bethune, Director  

Judd Gregg, Director  

/s/ Kevin Burke  

/s/ Clive R. Hollick  

Kevin Burke, Director  

Clive R. Hollick, Director  

/s/ Jaime Chico Pardo  

/s/ George Paz  

Jaime Chico Pardo, Director  

George Paz, Director  

/s/ D. Scott Davis  

/s/ Bradley T. Sheares  

D. Scott Davis, Director  

Bradley T. Sheares, Director  

/s/ Linnet F. Deily  

Linnet F. Deily, Director  

Dated: December 9, 2011  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

            Each
of the undersigned, as a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the
 Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints David M. Cote, Katherine L.
Adams, David J. Anderson, Kathleen A. Winters, Thomas F. Larkins and John J.
Tus, each with power to act without the other and with power of substitution
and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity
as a director of the Company one or more registration statements on Form S-8 or
any other appropriate form and to file the same together with all exhibits
thereto, under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment or
supplement thereto or to any registration statement heretofore filed by the
Company on Form S-8 or any other appropriate form for the registration of
shares of the Company s Common Stock (or participations where appropriate) to
be offered pursuant to the Honeywell Savings and Ownership Plan, the Honeywell
Puerto Rico Savings and Ownership Plan, the Honeywell Supplemental Savings
Plan, the 1993 Stock Plan for Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its
Affiliates, the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell
International Inc., the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell
International Inc., the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International
Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell
International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2007 Honeywell Global Employee Stock
Plan (including any and all sub-plans), or the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan of
Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, and any plan which is a
successor to such plans or is a validly authorized new plan pursuant to which
securities of the Company are issued to employees.   

            I
hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform
every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I
might do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or
cause to be done.  

            I
hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to sign the
above-described documents.  

This
Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which
shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and
hereto were upon the same instrument.   

/s/ Gordon M. Bethune  

/s/ Judd Gregg  

Gordon M. Bethune, Director  

Judd Gregg, Director  

/s/ Kevin Burke  

/s/ Clive R. Hollick  

Kevin Burke, Director  

Clive R. Hollick, Director  

/s/ Jaime Chico Pardo  

/s/ George Paz  

Jaime Chico Pardo, Director  

George Paz, Director  

/s/ D. Scott Davis  

/s/ Bradley T. Sheares  

D. Scott Davis, Director  

Bradley T. Sheares, Director  

/s/ Linnet F. Deily  

Linnet F. Deily, Director  

Dated: December 9, 2011  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

            Each
of the undersigned, as a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the
 Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints David M. Cote, Katherine L.
Adams, David J. Anderson, Kathleen A. Winters, Thomas F. Larkins and John J.
Tus, each with power to act without the other and with power of substitution
and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity
as a director of the Company one or more registration statements on Form S-3 or
S-4 or any other appropriate form, and to file the same together with all
exhibits thereto, under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment or
supplement thereto or to any registration statement heretofore filed by the
Company for the registration of sales or resales of:   

            (i)
shares of the Company s common stock, par value, $1.00 per share, including
shares of common stock to be offered under the Dividend Reinvestment and Share
Purchase Plan of the Company and any successor or new plan for such purposes;  

            (ii)
shares of the Company s preferred stock, without par value;   

            (iii)
debt securities of the Company, with such terms as may be from time to time
specified in such registration statement or any amendment, post-effective
amendment or supplement thereto; and  

            (iv)
such other securities of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures or
affiliates or any other person or entity, as may be specified in any such
registration statement, amendment or supplement thereto, all in accordance with
the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations thereunder.   

            I
hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform
every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I
might do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or
cause to be done.  

            I
hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to the extent
that they confer authority to sign the above-described documents.  

This
Power of Attorney may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which
shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and
hereto were upon the same instrument.   

/s/ Gordon M. Bethune  

/s/ Judd Gregg  

Gordon M. Bethune, Director  

Judd Gregg, Director  

/s/ Kevin Burke  

/s/ Clive R. Hollick  

Kevin Burke, Director  

Clive R. Hollick, Director  

/s/ Jaime Chico Pardo  

/s/ George Paz  

Jaime Chico Pardo, Director  

George Paz, Director  

/s/ D. Scott Davis  

/s/ Bradley T. Sheares  

D. Scott Davis, Director  

Bradley T. Sheares, Director  

/s/ Linnet F. Deily  

Linnet F. Deily, Director  

Dated: December 9, 2011  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

            I,
David M. Cote, a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ), a
Delaware corporation, hereby appoint Katherine L. Adams, David J. Anderson,
Kathleen A. Winters, Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act
without the other and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my
attorney-in-fact and agent for me and in my name, place and stead in any and
all capacities,  

            (i)          to sign the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 for the year ended December 31, 2011,  

            (ii)         to sign any amendment to the Annual Report referred to in (i) above, and  

            (iii)        to file the documents described in (i) and (ii) above and all exhibits thereto and
any and all other documents in connection therewith,   

  granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent
full power and authority to do and perform every act and thing requisite,
necessary or desirable to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all
intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their
or his or her substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.  

/s/ David M. Cote  

David M. Cote  

Dated: December 9, 2011  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

            I,
David M. Cote, a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ), a
Delaware corporation, hereby appoint Katherine L. Adams, David J. Anderson,
Kathleen A. Winters, Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act
without the other and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my
attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the
Company one or more registration statements on Form S-8 or any other
appropriate form, and to file the same together with all exhibits thereto,
under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment or supplement thereto
or to any registration statement heretofore filed by the Company on Form S-8 or
any other appropriate form for the registration of shares of the Company s
Common Stock (or participations where appropriate) to be offered pursuant to
the Honeywell Savings and Ownership Plan, the Honeywell Puerto Rico Savings and
Ownership Plan, the Honeywell Supplemental Savings Plan, the 1993 Stock Plan
for Employees of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the Stock
Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc., the 2006 Stock
Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc., the 2003 Stock
Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2006
Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the
2007 Honeywell Global Employee Stock Plan (including any and all sub-plans), or
the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its
Affiliates, and any plan which is a successor to such plans or is a validly
authorized new plan pursuant to which securities of the Company are issued to
employees.   

            I
hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform
every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I
might do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or
cause to be done.  

            I
hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to sign the
above-described documents.  

/s/ David M. Cote  

David M. Cote  

Dated: December 9, 2011  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

            I,
David M. Cote, a director of Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ), a
Delaware corporation, hereby appoint Katherine L. Adams, David J. Anderson,
Kathleen A. Winters, Thomas F. Larkins and John J. Tus, each with power to act
without the other and with power of substitution and resubstitution, as my
attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the
Company one or more registration statements on Form S-3 or S-4 or any other
appropriate form, and to file the same together with all exhibits thereto,
under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment or supplement thereto
or to any registration statement heretofore filed by the Company for the
registration of sales or resales of:   

            (i)
shares of the Company s common stock, par value, $1.00 per share, including
shares of common stock to be offered under the Dividend Reinvestment and Share
Purchase Plan of the Company and any successor or new plan for such purposes;  

            (ii)
shares of the Company s preferred stock, without par value;   

            (iii)
debt securities of the Company, with such terms as may be from time to time
specified in such registration statement or any amendment, post-effective
amendment or supplement thereto; and  

            (iv)
such other securities of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures or
affiliates or any other person or entity, as may be specified in any such
registration statement, amendment or supplement thereto, all in accordance with
the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations thereunder.   

            I
hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact full power and authority to perform
every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I
might do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or
cause to be done.  

            I
hereby revoke any or all prior appointments of attorneys-in-fact to the extent
that they confer authority to sign the above-described documents.  

/s/ David M. Cote  

David M. Cote  

Dated: December 9, 2011  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 c68029_ex31-1.htm

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, David M. Cote, Chief Executive Officer, certify that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Honeywell
 International Inc.;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
 statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
 make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
 statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
 this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
 information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
 the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
 registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.  

The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
 establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
 in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
 reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
 registrant and have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
 disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
 ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
 consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
 entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
 prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
 such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
 supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
 financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
 purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)  

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
 and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
 effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
 period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
 control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
 recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of
 an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
 materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
 reporting; and  

5.  

The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
 on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
 to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
 board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)  

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
 operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
 likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
 summarize and report financial information; and  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
 employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
 over financial reporting.  

Date:
 February 17, 2012  

By:  

/s/ David M.
 Cote  

David M.
 Cote  

Chief
 Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 c68029_ex31-2.htm

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, David J. Anderson, Chief Financial Officer, certify that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Honeywell
 International Inc.;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
 statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
 make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
 statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
 this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
 information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
 the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
 registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.  

The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
 establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
 in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
 financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
 disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
 ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
 consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
 particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
 such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
 supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
 financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
 purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)  

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
 and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
 effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
 period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
 control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
 recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of
 an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
 materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
 reporting; and  

5.  

The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
 on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
 to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
 board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a.  

all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
 operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
 likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
 summarize and report financial information; and  

b.  

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
 employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
 over financial reporting.  

Date:
 February 17, 2012  

By:  

/s/ David J.
 Anderson   

David J.
 Anderson  

Chief
 Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 c68029_ex32-1.htm

EXHIBIT
32.1   

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In connection with the Annual Report of Honeywell International Inc.
(the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2011 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I,
David M. Cote, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that:  

(1)  

The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

(2)  

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
 material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
 Company.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 c68029_ex32-2.htm

EXHIBIT 32.2   

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In connection with the Annual Report of Honeywell International Inc.
(the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2011 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I,
David J. Anderson, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

(1)  

The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

(2)  

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
 material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
 Company.  

By:  

/s/ David J.
 Anderson  

David J.
 Anderson  

Chief
 Financial Officer  

February 17,
 2012  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 hon-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE FILE

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 hon-20111231.xsd
 XBRL SCHEMA FILE

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 hon-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL CALCULATION FILE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 hon-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL DEFINITION FILE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 hon-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL LABEL FILE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 hon-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL PRESENTATION FILE

</EX-101.PRE>

