<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170210_10-K_edgar_data_773840_0000930413-17-000391_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>19330634</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>319830</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>970822</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5929981</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9183781</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2624514</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>231</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000930413-17-000391.hdr.sgml : 20170210
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170210155313
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000930413-17-000391
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		128
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170210
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170210

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000773840
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES [3714]
		IRS NUMBER:				222640650
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08974
		FILM NUMBER:		17593010

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		115 TABOR ROAD
		CITY:			MORRIS PLAINS
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07950
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9734552000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		115 TABOR ROAD
		CITY:			MORRIS PLAINS
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07950

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALLIEDSIGNAL INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940929

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000930413-17-000391.txt : 20170210

10-K
 1
 c86783_10k.htm

UNITED STATES  
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K  

x  
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)   
 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
 For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2016   

OR  
 o   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)   
 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 For the transition period from        to        
Commission file number  1-8974   

Honeywell International Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 

22-2640650  
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S. Employer  
 
     incorporation or organization) 

Identification No.)  

115 Tabor Road  
Morris Plains, New Jersey 

07950  
 
     (Address of principal executive offices) 

(Zip Code)  
 
 Registrant s telephone number, including area code (973)
455-2000 

 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

* The common stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange. 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate
by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   x  
No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes
  o   No   x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x  
No   o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes   x  
No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of
 accelerated filer,   large accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act. (Check One): 

Large accelerated filer   x  
      Accelerated filer   o  
      Non-accelerated filer   o  
      Smaller reporting company   o   

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes   o  
No   x  

The aggregate market value of the voting
stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant was approximately $88.6 billion at June 30, 2016. 

There were 761,194,241 shares of Common Stock outstanding at January
27, 2017. 

Documents Incorporated by Reference  

Part III: Proxy Statement
for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held April 24, 2017. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Item   

Page    

Part I   

1.   
       
       Business   
       
      3   

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
       
      7   

1A.   
       
       Risk Factors   
       
      8   

1B.   
       
       Unresolved Staff Comments   
       
      12   

2.   
       
       Properties   
       
      12   

3.   
       
       Legal Proceedings   
       
      12   

4.   
       
       Mine Safety Disclosures   
       
      12   
 
       Part II.   

5.   
       
       Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
       
      13   

6.   
       
       Selected Financial Data   
       
      15   

7.   
       
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and     Results of Operations   
       
      16   

7A.   
       
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks   
       
      33   

8.   
       
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
       
      34   

9.   
       
       Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
       
      86   

9A.   
       
       Controls and Procedures   
       
      86   

9B.   
       
       Other Information   
       
      86   
 
       Part III.   

10.   
       
       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
       
      88   

11.   
       
       Executive Compensation   
       
      88   

12.   
       
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
       
      88   

13.   
       
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
       
      90   

14.   
       
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
       
      90   

Part IV.   
       
       15.   
       
       Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
       
      91   
 
       Signatures   
       
      92   

PART I.  

Item 1.    Business  

Honeywell International
Inc. (Honeywell or the Company) invents and commercializes technologies that address some of the world s most critical challenges
around energy, safety, security, productivity and global urbanization. As a diversified technology and manufacturing company,
we are uniquely positioned to blend physical products with software to serve customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
turbochargers, energy efficient products and solutions for homes, businesses and transportation, specialty chemicals, electronic
and advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and productivity, sensing, safety and security technologies
for buildings, homes and industries. Our products and solutions enable a safer, more comfortable and more productive world, enhancing
the quality of life of people around the globe. Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985. 

Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, are available free
of charge on our website (www.honeywell.com) under the heading Investor Relations (see SEC Filings and Reports) immediately after
they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, the Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or about March 9, 2017, and which will also be available free of charge
on our website.  

Major Businesses  

We globally manage our
business operations through four operating segments: Aerospace, Home and Building Technologies, Performance Materials and Technologies,
and Safety and Productivity Solutions. Financial information related to our operating segments is included in Note 21 Segment Financial
Data of Notes to Financial Statements. 

The major products/services,
customers/uses and key competitors of each of our operating segments are: 

Aerospace  

Aerospace
is a leading global supplier of products, software and services for aircraft and vehicles that it sells to original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs) and other customers in a variety of end markets: air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft,
airlines, aircraft operators, defense and space contractors and automotive and truck manufacturers. Aerospace is a leading provider
of aircraft engines, integrated avionics, systems and service solutions, and related products and services for aircraft manufacturers,
  and   turbochargers
to improve the performance and efficiency of passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Aerospace also provides spare parts, repair,
overhaul and maintenance services (principally to aircraft operators) for the aftermarket. Aerospace products and services include
auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental control systems, wireless connectivity services, electric power systems,
engine controls, flight safety, communications, navigation hardware and software, radar and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting,
management and technical services, advanced systems and instruments, satellite and space components, aircraft wheels and brakes,
repair and overhaul services, turbochargers and thermal systems.  

Home and Building Technologies  

Home and
Building Technologies is a leading global provider of products, software, solutions and technologies that help owners of
homes stay connected and in control of their comfort, security and energy use; enable commercial building owners and
occupants to ensure their facilities are safe, energy efficient, sustainable and productive; and help electricity, gas and
water providers supply customers and communities more efficiently. Home and Building Technologies products and services
include controls and displays for heating, cooling, indoor air quality, ventilation, humidification, combustion, lighting and
home automation; advanced software applications for home/building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control
systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow, temperature and electrical current; products, services and
solutions for measurement, regulation, control and metering of gases and electricity; metering and communications systems for
water utilities and industries; access control; video surveillance; fire products; remote patient monitoring systems;
and installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems that keep buildings safe, comfortable and productive. 

Performance Materials and Technologies  

Performance
Materials and Technologies is a global leader in developing and manufacturing advanced materials, process technologies and automation
solutions. UOP provides process technology, products, including catalysts and adsorbents, equipment and consulting services that
enable customers to efficiently produce gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, petrochemicals and renewable fuels for the petroleum refining,
gas processing, petrochemical, and other industries. Process Solutions is a pioneer in automation control, instrumentation, advanced
software and related services for the oil and gas, refining, pulp and paper, industrial power generation, chemicals and petrochemicals,
biofuels, life sciences, and metals, minerals and mining industries. Advanced Materials manufactures a wide variety of high-performance
products, including fluorocarbons, hydrofluoroolefins, specialty films, waxes, additives, advanced fibers, customized research
chemicals and intermediates, and electronic materials and chemicals. 

Safety and Productivity Solutions  

Safety and Productivity
Solutions is a leading global provider of products, software and connected solutions to customers around the globe that improve
productivity, workplace safety and asset performance. Safety products include personal protection equipment and footwear designed
for work, play and outdoor activities. Productivity Solutions products and services include gas detection technology; mobile devices
and software for computing, data collection and thermal printing; supply chain and warehouse automation equipment, software and
solutions; custom-engineered sensors, switches and controls for sensing and productivity solutions; and software-based data and
asset management productivity solutions. 

Competition   

We are subject to competition
in substantially all product and service areas. Some of our key competitors are: 

Aerospace: Borg-Warner (automotive), Garmin,
General Electric, Rockwell Collins, Thales and United Technologies    

Home and Building Technologies: Emerson
Electric, Itron, Johnson Controls, Schneider and Siemens    

Performance Materials and Technologies:
Albemarle, BASF, Dow, Dupont, Emerson and Sinopec    

Safety and Productivity Solutions: 3M,
Mine Safety Appliances, Kion Group, TE Connectivity and Zebra Technologies    

Our businesses compete
on a variety of factors such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product
innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our
products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors include breadth of product line,
research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products
and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. Many of our competitors
have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with
the captive component divisions of OEMs.  

Aerospace Sales   

Our
Aerospace segment sales were 38%, 39% and 39% of our total sales in 2016, 2015 and 2014. Our sales to commercial
aerospace OEMs were 6%, 8% and 6% of our total sales in 2016, 2015 and 2014. In addition, our sales to commercial aftermarket
customers of aerospace products and services were 12%, 12% and 11% of our total sales in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

U.S. Government Sales  

Sales to the U.S. Government
(principally by Aerospace), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $3,330
million, $3,743 million and $3,693 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, which included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as
a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $2,647 million, $2,680 million and $2,792 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. U.S. defense 

spending decreased in 2016 compared to
2015. We do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2017 federal defense
spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (OEMs  production, engineering development
programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs), as
well as our diversified commercial businesses. 

Backlog  

Our total backlog at
December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $19,075 million and $18,183 million. We anticipate that approximately $12,022 million of the 2016
backlog will be filled in 2017. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a
substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer s option. 

International Operations   

We are engaged in manufacturing,
sales, service and research and development (R D) globally. U.S. exports and non-U.S. manufactured products are significant
to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 13% of our total sales in 2016 and 14% in each of 2015 and 2014. Non-U.S. manufactured
products and services, mainly in Europe and Asia, were 43% of our total sales in 2016, 39% in 2015 and 41% in 2014. 

Year Ended December 31, 2016  

Manufactured Products and
    Systems and 
Performance of Services    
     Aerospace    
     Home and 
Building  
Technologies    
     Performance 
 Materials and 
 Technologies    
     Safety and 
 Productivity 
 Solutions  

(% of Total Sales)     
 
     U.S. Exports     
        21  %    
        2  %    
        18  %    
        5  %  
 
     Non-U.S.     
        33  %    
        50  %    
        48  %    
        46  %  

Information related
to risks attendant to our foreign operations is included in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the caption  Macroeconomic and Industry
Risks.  

Raw Materials  

The principal raw materials
used in our operations are generally readily available. Although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply,
we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2016. We are not dependent on any
one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. 

The costs of certain
key raw materials, including R240, fluorspar, copper, ethylene and perchloroethylene in Performance Materials and Technologies
and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in Aerospace, are expected to continue to fluctuate. We will continue to attempt
to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where
feasible. We do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2017. 

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Distribution
Rights  

Our segments are not
dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. In our judgment, our intellectual
property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents,
trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or
any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product to be of material importance in relation to our
total business. 

Research and Development  

The Company s
principal research and development activities are in the U.S., India, Europe and China. Research and development expense totaled
$2,143 million, $1,856 million and $1,892 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. R D expense was 5% of sales in each of 2016, 2015
and 2014. Customer-sponsored (principally by the U.S. Government) R D activities amounted to an additional $967 million, $998
million and $1,034 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

Environment  

We are subject to various
federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. We believe
that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental
damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent
in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. 

We are and have been
engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies.
We believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk
of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord
with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It is also possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved
capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies,
could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. 

Among other environmental
requirements, we are subject to the federal Superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been
designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating
sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency s National Priority
List. Although there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup
costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we do not anticipate having to bear significantly
more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. 

We do not believe that
existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have
a material effect in the foreseeable future on the Company s business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations,
capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position or financial standing. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in
this area. 

Employees  

We have approximately
131,000 employees at December 31, 2016, of whom approximately 45,000 are located in the United States. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The executive officers of Honeywell, listed as follows, are elected
annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among them. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements  

We describe many of the
trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and in other parts of this report (including this Item 1A). Such discussions contain forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Forward-looking statements
are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will
or may occur in the future. They are based on management s assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends,
current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future
performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking
statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also
subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. These forward-looking statements
should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular, the factors discussed below.
These factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. 

Risk Factors  

Our business, operating
results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the principal risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which
could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. 

Macroeconomic and Industry Risks   

Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the
markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results
of operations.   

Aerospace   Operating
                                                                          results of Aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying
                                                                          patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and capacity constraints. The operating results of
                                                                          our                                                                           Commercial Aviation business unit may be
                                                                          adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts
                                                                          new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft,
                                                                          the                                                                           retirement of aircraft and global flying
                                                                          hours,                                                                           which impact air transport, regional,
                                                                          business and general aviation aircraft
                                                                          utilization rates. Operating results could also be impacted by changes in overall trends related to end market demand for
                                                                          the                                                                           product portfolio. Operating results in our
                                                                          Defense and Space business unit may be affected by the mix of U.S. and foreign
                                                                          government appropriations for defense and space programs and by compliance risks. Results may also be impacted by the
                                                                          potential                                                                           introduction
                                                                          of                                                                                                    counterfeit parts into
                                                                          our global supply chain.
                                                                          Operating results in our Transportation Systems business unit may be affected
                                                                          by the level of production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding
                                                                          automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products and delays
                                                                          in launch schedules for new automobile and truck platforms.     

Home and Building Technologies   Operating 
 results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global residential and commercial construction activity (including
retrofits and upgrades), lower capital spending and operating expenditures on building projects, less industrial plant expansion,
changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and new technologies, and fluctuations in inventory levels in
distribution channels.     

Performance Materials and Technologies   Operating
results may be adversely impacted by downturns in capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor
plants, our customers  availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility,
product commoditization, and our ability to maximize our facilities  production capacity and minimize downtime. In particular,
the volatility in oil and natural gas prices have and will continue to impact our customers  operating levels and capital
spending and thus demand for our products and services.    

Safety and Productivity Solutions   Operating 
 results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global capital spending and operating expenditures, including
in the oil and gas industry, reduced investments in process automation, safety monitoring, and plant capacity utilization initiatives,
fluctuations in retail markets, lower customer demand due to the failure to anticipate and respond to overall trends related to
end market demand, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and technology that may lead to product commoditization,
and adverse industry economic conditions, all of which could result in lower market share, reduced selling prices and lower margins.

An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is
in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international
operations.   

Our international operations,
including U.S. exports, represent more than half of the Company s sales. Risks related to international operations include
exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws,
import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our
efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of
private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees
in these regions. Instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, including the United Kingdom
referendum in favor of exiting the European Union and the evolving U.S. political, regulatory and economic landscape following
the 2016 elections, and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair
our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability
to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. 

Operating outside of
the United States also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. However,
foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or be successful in eliminating
such volatility. Finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the United States that is invested with financial
and non-financial counterparties. While we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash
or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties
with whom we transact business could expose Honeywell to financial loss. 

Risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may
adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.   

Significant changes in
actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations
and require cash pension contributions in future periods. Changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our
anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of
each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. With regard to cash pension
contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns
on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. 

Operational Risks   

Raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers
to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our
ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities.   

The cost of raw materials
is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in Performance Materials and Technologies (R240, fluorspar, copper,
ethylene and perchloroethylene) and in Aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). Our inability to offset material price
inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions
or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Many major components,
product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in Aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source
basis. Although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for
raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have
in the future. Our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers  inability
to scale 

production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. Our inability to fill our supply
needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result
in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. 

We may be unable to successfully execute or effectively
integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned.   

We regularly review our
portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to complete
transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all, and during integration we may discover cybersecurity and compliance
issues. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses
to meet or exceed expected returns including risk of impairment; (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into
Honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies; (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets
and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties
or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities, or with regard to
divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. 

Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability
to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with
acceptable margins.   

Our future growth rate
depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets,
(ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including
many new and non-traditional competitors, (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products
from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (v) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products
to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (vi) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise
and understanding of customers  needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. 

The failure of our technologies
or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues
and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. 

Failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational
improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects or to effectively manage our workforce, may
reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses.   

Our profitability and
margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. In addition, we seek productivity and cost savings
benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive
regions and product line rationalizations. Risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives,
additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale.
We may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these
actions may potentially disrupt our operations. In addition, organizational changes, attrition, labor relations difficulties, or
workforce stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. 

As a supplier to the U.S. Government, we are subject to
unique risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations
of our operations and performance.   

U.S. Government contracts
are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent
with the terms of the applicable contract. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject
to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. When appropriate and prudent, we have made
adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. 

We are also subject to
government investigations of business practices and compliance with government 

procurement regulations. If, as a result of any
such investigation or other government investigations (including investigation of violations of certain environmental, employment
or export laws), Honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, then it could be suspended from
bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal
proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. 

Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor
companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.   

Mainly because of past
operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation
of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases
and exposures. We continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits
and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances.
Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. Various federal,
state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and can impose substantial fines
and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or
decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of
policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment
of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements
or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial
condition or results of operations. 

Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations,
result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.   

Global cybersecurity
threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (IT)
systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its
customers and/or its third party service providers including cloud providers. Our customers, including the U.S. government, are
increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional
costs to comply with such demands. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and
incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. We seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent,
detect, respond to and mitigate these threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability assessments,
product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems
and maintenance of backup and protective systems. Despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and
scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential
or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. Cybersecurity incidents
aimed at the software imbedded in our products could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar
range of damages to our customers, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. The potential
consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, theft
of intellectual property, fines levied by the Federal Trade Commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research,
development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication
and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. 

Legal and Regulatory Risks   

Our U.S. and non-U.S. tax liabilities are dependent, in
part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate.   

Our future results of
operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries
with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof),
changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in
the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns
and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. Our tax expense includes
estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments 

of future earnings of the Company
which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Changes in tax laws or regulations, including multi-jurisdictional
changes enacted in response to the guidelines provided by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to
address base erosion and profit shifting, and potential comprehensive U.S. tax reform which, among other things, might change certain
U.S. tax rules impacting the way U.S based multinationals are taxed, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our
provision for income taxes. 

Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies
can have a significant impact on our results of operations.   

The sales and margins
of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification
regulations. Within Aerospace, the operating results of Commercial Original Equipment and Commercial Aftermarket may be impacted
by, among other things, mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring
the installation of equipment on aircraft. Our Defense and Space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement
regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards for motor vehicles can impact Transportation Systems.
Within Home and Building Technologies, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by
fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Performance Materials and Technologies 
results of operations can be affected by environmental, safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Growth in all our
businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local
employment law mandates may be restrictive. 

We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation
matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties.   

We are subject to a
number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the
conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability
(including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property,
antitrust, import and export, and environmental, health and safety matters. Our potential liabilities are subject to change
over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may
become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance
coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. The incurrence of significant
liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash
flows, liquidity and financial condition. 

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments  

Not applicable. 

Item 2.    Properties  

We have approximately
1,346 locations, of which 305 are plants. Our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our
present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. 

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings  

We are subject to a
number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business.
See a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Financial
Statements. 

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures  

Not applicable. 

Part II.  

Item 5.     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
                                                                                       Purchases of Equity Securities  

Honeywell s common
stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Market and dividend information for Honeywell s common stock is included
in Note 24 Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information of Notes to Financial Statements. 

The number of record
holders of our common stock at December 31, 2016 was 50,891. 

Information regarding
securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters under the caption  Equity Compensation Plans.  

Honeywell purchased 2,000,000
shares of its common stock, par value $1 per share, in the quarter ending December 31, 2016. Under the Company s previously
reported $5 billion share repurchase program, of which $4.1 billion remained available as of December 31, 2016 for additional share
repurchases. Honeywell presently expects to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to generally offset the dilutive impact
of employee stock based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under
our savings plans. The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and the level of our operating,
financing and other investing activities. 

The following table summarizes
Honeywell s purchase of its common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2016: 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
 
      Period  
       
       Total   
  Number of 
Shares 
 Purchased   
       
       Average    
  Price Paid   
  per Share   
       
       Total Number     
 of Shares     
 Purchased as 
     Part of Publicly 
     Announced Plans    
  or Programs   
       
       Approximate Dollar     
 Value of Shares that     
 May Yet be Purchased     
 Under Plans or     
 Programs    
  (Dollars in millions)    

October 2016    
     2,000,000    
       
     $106.56       
     2,000,000    
       $4,077     

Performance Graph  

The following graph compares
the five-year cumulative total return on our common stock to the total returns on the Standard   Poor s (S P) 500
Stock Index and a composite of S P s Industrial Conglomerates and Aerospace and Defense indices, on a 65%/35% weighted
basis (the Composite Index). The weighting of the components of the Composite Index are based on our segments  relative contribution
to total segment profit. The selection of the Industrial Conglomerates component of the Composite Index reflects the diverse and
distinct range of non-aerospace businesses conducted by Honeywell. The annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph
are based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in Honeywell stock and each index on December 31, 2011 and that all dividends
were reinvested. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

This selected financial
data should be read in conjunction with Honeywell s Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere
in this Annual Report as well as the section of this Annual Report titled Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Item 6.     Selected Financial Data  

Item 7.     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations  

(Dollars
in millions, except per share amounts)  

The following Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results
of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (Honeywell or the Company)
for the three years ended December 31, 2016. All references to Notes relate to Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data. 

In July 2016, the Company
announced the realignment of  the business units comprising its Automation and Control Solutions
reporting segment by forming two new reportable operating segments: Home and Building Technologies and Safety and Productivity
Solutions.  Home and Building Technologies includes Environmental   Energy Solutions, Security and Fire, and Building
Solutions and Distribution. Additionally, the Industrial Combustion/Thermal business, previously part of Environmental   Energy
Solutions in Automation and Control Solutions, became part of Performance Materials and Technologies.  Safety
and Productivity Solutions  includes Sensing   Productivity Solutions and Industrial Safety, as well as the Intelligrated
business.  Under the realigned segment reporting structure, the Company has four reportable
operating segments: Aerospace, Home and Building Technologies, Performance Materials and Technologies, and Safety and Productivity
Solutions. The Company has reported its financial performance based on this realignment for all periods presented.  

These realignments have
no impact on the Company s historical consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Prior period
amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period segment presentation.  

On
September 16, 2016, the Company completed the sale of the Aerospace government services business, Honeywell Technology Solutions
Inc.  The assets and liabilities associated with Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc. have been removed from the Company s
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective date of the sale. The results of operations for Honeywell Technology Solutions are
included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective date of the sale.  

On
October 1, 2016, the Company completed  the tax-free spin-off of its Resins and Chemicals business, part of Performance Materials
and Technologies, into a standalone, publicly-traded company (named AdvanSix) to Honeywell shareowners. The assets and liabilities
associated with AdvanSix have been removed from the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective date of the
spin-off. The results of operations for AdvanSix are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective
date of the spin-off. 

Executive summary   

In 2016, Honeywell successfully
navigated a challenging macro-economic environment. We grew net sales 2% to $39,302 million, grew earnings per share of common
stock   assuming dilution 3% to $6.20 and grew net income attributable to Honeywell 1% to $4,809 million. We executed on
cost reduction activities, accelerated our capital deployment strategy and improved the growth portfolio through acquisitions and
divestitures, including the divestiture of Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc. and the tax-free spin-off of AdvanSix. We also announced
the realignment of the business units comprising our Automation and Control Solutions segment to two new reportable operating segments,
as previously mentioned. The Company also announced a leadership succession plan for our Chief Executive Officer and successfully
executed leadership transitions in three of our four reportable operating segments. 

We continued our balanced
long-term focus on enhancing shareowner value without sacrificing growth investment, including maintaining R D spending at
5% of sales, new product introductions aligned with global macroeconomic trends in energy, safety, security, productivity and global
urbanization, over $300 million of new repositioning investments to improve our operations and increased investment in High Growth
Regions. We also continued to enhance our software capabilities through the creation of a software center in the United States
to staff more than 730 full-time product software engineers, who are in addition to the more than 11,000 software engineers already
part of Honeywell. 

In 2016 we deployed capital
of over $7.5 billion, including the following: 

Mergers and Acquisitions   we
deployed over $2.5 billion during 2016, acquiring businesses that will be integrated into each of our four operating segments.
These acquisitions all share a software and technology focus and increase our existing deep alignment with enduring macro trends
such as energy efficiency, clean energy generation, safety, security, productivity and global urbanization.   

Dividend   after a 15%
dividend rate increase in 2015, we increased our annual dividend rate by 12% in 2016, as we seek to continue to grow the dividend
faster than earnings, marking the 12 th  dividend increase in the past 11 years.   

Share Repurchases   we
continue to opportunistically repurchase our shares with the goal of generally keeping share count flat and seeking to offset the
dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation and savings plans. In 2016, we repurchased 19.3 million shares for $2.1 billion.   

Capital Investment in Facilities   we
invested over $1 billion in capital expenditures focused on high return investments such as the expansion of facilities to manufacture
our Solstice  low global-warming potential refrigerant products and building new production facilities to make UOP catalyst
and absorbent products.    

Honeywell also completed
refinancing of long-term debt through the issuance of  4,000 million Senior Notes in February and an additional $4,500 million
Senior Notes in October. The proceeds from the offerings of Senior Notes were used to repurchase $2,200 million of Senior Notes
outstanding, as well as repay outstanding commercial paper. We expect these refinancing activities will reduce our ongoing annual
interest expense. 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Net Sales   

The change in net sales is attributable to the following: 

A discussion of net sales
by segment can be found in the Review of Business Segments section of this MD A. 

The foreign currency
translation impact in 2016 compared with 2015 is principally driven by the weakening of the British Pound, Chinese Renminbi and
Canadian Dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar. 

The foreign currency
translation impact in 2015 compared with 2014 is principally driven by the weakening of the Euro and Canadian Dollar against the
U.S. Dollar. 

Cost of Products and Services Sold   

Cost of products and
services sold increased in 2016 compared with 2015 principally due to increased direct material costs of approximately $380 million
(driven primarily by acquisitions, net of divestitures, partially offset by the favorable impact of productivity, net of inflation,
and foreign currency translation), higher depreciation and amortization attributable to acquisitions of approximately $135 million
and increased pension mark-to-market expense allocated to cost of products and services sold of $70 million, partially offset by
higher pension and other postretirement benefits income allocated to cost of products and services sold of $200 million. 

Gross margin percentage
increased in 2016 compared with 2015 principally due to higher gross margin in Performance Materials and Technologies (approximately
0.6 percentage point impact) and higher pension and other postretirement benefits income allocated to cost of products and services
sold (approximately 0.5 percentage point impact), partially offset by lower gross margin in Aerospace, Home and Building Solutions
and Safety and Productivity Solutions (approximately 0.7 percentage point impact collectively) and increased pension mark-to-market
expense allocated to cost of products and services sold (approximately 0.2 percentage point impact). 

Cost of products and
services sold decreased in 2015 compared with 2014 principally due to a decrease in direct and indirect material costs of approximately
$1,460 million (driven primarily by the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, productivity, lower raw materials pass-through
pricing and the absence of the Friction Materials business, partially offset by higher sales volume), a decrease in labor costs
of approximately $450 million and higher pension income allocated to cost of products and services sold of approximately $230 million. 

Gross margin percentage
increased in 2015 compared with 2014 principally due to higher gross margin in all of our business segments (approximately 2.0
percentage point impact collectively) and increased pension income allocated to cost of products and services sold (approximately
0.5 percentage point impact). 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses   

Selling, general and
administrative expenses (SG A) increased in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to increased labor costs (driven primarily
by acquisitions, net of divestitures, investment for growth and merit increases), increased pension mark-to-market expense allocated
to SG A and higher repositioning charges, partially offset by the favorable impact from foreign currency translation and increased
pension income allocated to SG A. 

SG A decreased in
2015 compared with 2014 primarily driven by the favorable impact from foreign currency translation, increased pension income allocated
to SG A, decreased indirect costs and benefits from repositioning, partially offset by increased labor costs (primarily merit
increases and investment for growth). 

Tax Expense  

For discussion of changes
in the effective tax rate, see Note 5 Income Taxes in the Notes to Financial Statements. 

The effective tax rates
for 2016, 2015 and 2014 are lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to lower tax rates on non-U.S. earnings, the
vast majority of which we intend to permanently reinvest outside the United States. 

The Company currently
expects the effective tax rate for 2017 to be approximately 25%. The effective tax rate can vary from quarter to quarter due to
unusual or infrequently occurring items, the resolution of income tax audits, changes in tax laws or other items such as pension
mark-to-market adjustments and the tax impact from employee share-based payments. 

Net Income Attributable to Honeywell  

Earnings per share of
common stock   assuming dilution increased in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily driven by increased pension and other postretirement
income, higher segment profit in Home and Building Technologies and Performance Materials and Technologies, the gain related to
the Honeywell Technology Solutions, Inc. divestiture, a decrease in the weighted average shares outstanding and the tax benefit
from adoption of the FASB s accounting standard related to employee share-based payment accounting, partially offset by lower
segment profit in Aerospace and Safety and Productivity Solutions, increased pension mark-to-market expense and higher repositioning
and other charges. 

Earnings per share of
common stock   assuming dilution increased in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily driven by increased segment profit in each
of our business segments and lower pension and other postretirement expense, partially offset by increased tax expense and lower
other income (principally due to the absence of a realized gain related to the prior year sale of marketable equity securities). 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW  

Our consolidated results are principally impacted by:   

Change in global economic growth rates and industry conditions and demand in our key end markets;   

Ability of recently acquired
    businesses to integrate and continue to operate and grow in accordance with the assumptions utilized in determining the
    acquisition purchase price;   

The impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (in particular the Euro), relative to the U.S. Dollar;   

The extent to which cost savings from productivity actions are able to offset or exceed the impact of material and non-material inflation; and   

The impact of the pension discount rate and asset returns on pension expense, including mark-to-market adjustments, and funding requirements.   

Our 2017 areas of focus which are generally applicable to each of our operating segments include:   

Ensuring the successful completion of the leadership transition, which includes the Chief Executive Officer and leaders for three of our operating segments,  and continuing to execute on the realignment of our Home and Building Technologies and Safety and Productivity Solutions operating segments;   

Driving profitable organic growth through R D and technological excellence to deliver innovative products that customers value and expansion and localization of our footprint in high growth regions;   

Executing on our strategy to become a software-industrial company, which for us means products and services that facilitate the connected plane, home, building and factory;   

Executing disciplined, rigorous M A and integration processes to deliver growth through previously announced acquisitions;   

Expanding margins by maintaining and improving the Company s cost structure through manufacturing and administrative process improvements, repositioning, and other productivity actions;    

Controlling corporate and other non-operating costs, including costs incurred for asbestos and environmental matters, pension and other post-retirement and income tax expense;   

Increasing availability of capital
    through strong cash flow conversion from effective working capital management and proactively managing debt levels to enable
    the Company to smartly deploy capital for strategic acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases and capital
    expenditures.   

Review of Business Segments  

Aerospace  

2016 compared with 2015  

Aerospace sales decreased
primarily due to higher incentives to original equipment manufacturers (OEM Incentives), a decrease in organic sales volumes and
the Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc. divestiture, which was partially offset by growth from acquisitions. 

Commercial Original Equipment sales
    decreased by 13% (decreased 12% organic) primarily due to higher OEM incentives and decreased demand from business and
    general aviation original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), partially offset by higher shipments to air transport OEMs.     Consistent with broader aerospace industry trends, we expect the continuation of lower business and general
    aviation OEM     sales volumes.   

Commercial Aftermarket sales increased by 3% (increased 3% organic) primarily driven by higher repair and overhaul activities and increased spares shipments.   

Defense and Space sales decreased by 7% (decreased 6% organic) primarily due to declines in U.S. space and international defense programs, lower U.S. government services revenue, largely attributable to the impact of divestitures, and decreased demand from commercial helicopter OEMs, partially offset by sales from acquisitions.   

Transportation Systems sales increased by 3% (increased 4% organic) primarily driven by new platform launches and higher global turbo gas penetration.   

Aerospace segment profit
decreased primarily due to a 6% decrease in operational segment profit and a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
The decrease in operational segment profit is primarily due to product mix, higher OEM incentives and lower sales volumes, partially
offset by productivity and price, net of inflation. Cost of products and services sold decreased primarily driven by productivity,
net of inflation, and lower sales volumes, partially offset by acquisitions, net of divestitures. 

2015 compared with 2014  

Aerospace sales decreased
primarily due to the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and the Friction Materials divestiture, partially offset
by an increase in organic sales, as discussed below, and a decrease in OEM incentives predominantly to air transport and regional
aviation OEMs. 

Commercial Original Equipment sales increased by 11% (increased by 5% organic) primarily driven by a decrease in OEM Incentives and higher business and general aviation engine shipments.   

Commercial Aftermarket sales increased by 2% (increased 2% organic) primarily driven by higher repair and overhaul activities, partially offset by lower retrofits, modifications and upgrades for business and general aviation customers.   

Defense and Space sales decreased by 1% (flat organic) primarily due to lower U.S. government revenue, partially offset by growth in international programs.   

Transportation Systems sales decreased by 19% (increased 3% organic) primarily due to the unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and the Friction Materials divestiture, partially offset by continued growth from new platform launches and higher global turbo gas penetration.   

Aerospace segment profit
increased primarily due to an 8% increase in operational segment profit and a 6% favorable impact of acquisitions, divestitures
and other (predominantly the absence of higher prior year OEM Incentives), as discussed above, partially offset by a 4% unfavorable
impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit is primarily driven by productivity, net of
inflation, and favorable pricing, partially offset by continued investments for growth. Cost of products and services sold decreased
primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, the Friction Materials divestiture, and productivity, net
of inflation, partially offset by continued investments for growth. 

Home and Building Technologies  

2016 compared with 2015  

Home and Building Technologies
sales increased primarily due to growth from acquisitions and organic sales growth partially offset by the unfavorable impact of
foreign currency translation. 

Sales in Home and Building Products increased by 27% (increased 2% organic) principally driven
by acquisitions. Organic sales growth was primarily attributable to new product introductions in our Environmental and Energy Solutions
business and volume growth in our Security and Fire business.   

Sales in Home and Building Distribution increased by 5% (increased 7% organic) principally due
to organic sales growth partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Organic sales growth was primarily
driven by volume in our Distribution and Building Solutions Energy businesses.   

Home and Building Technologies
segment profit increased due to an increase in operational segment profit and acquisitions partially offset by the unfavorable
impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit was primarily driven by productivity net of
inflation and price. Cost of products and services increased due to acquisitions and inflation partially offset by the favorable
impact of foreign currency translation.  

2015 compared with
2014  

Home and Building Technologies
sales decreased primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation partially offset by organic sales growth. 

Sales in Home and Building Products decreased
by 3% (increased 3% organic) principally due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation partially offset by volume
growth in our Security and Fire business.    

Sales in Home and Building Distribution
decreased by 4% (increased 3% organic) principally due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Organic sales
growth was primarily due to increased sales volume in Distribution partially offset by softness in the project installation and
U.S. energy retrofit businesses.    

Home and Building Technologies
segment profit increased primarily due to the positive impact of price and productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by
continued investment for growth, higher sales volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Cost of products
and services sold decreased primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency translation and productivity partially offset
by higher organic sales volume. 

Performance Materials and Technologies  

2016 compared with 2015  

Performance Materials
and Technologies sales decreased due to a decrease in organic sales volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation,
partially offset by growth from acquisitions, net of divestitures. 

UOP sales decreased by 17% (decreased 16%
organic) driven primarily by lower gas processing revenues due to a significant slowdown in customer projects and decreased catalyst
volumes in the first nine months, partially offset by increased catalyst, licensing and equipment sales in the fourth quarter.    

Process Solutions sales increased by 16%
(increased 4% organic) driven primarily by increased volumes driven by the Elster acquisition and higher revenues in projects,
partially offset by lower field products sales.    

Advanced
Materials sales decreased by 5% (increased 3% organic) driven primarily by the impact of the October 1, 2016 spin-off of AdvanSix
and lower market pricing, as well as lower raw material pass-through pricing in AdvanSix in the first nine months, partially offset
by increased volumes in fluorine and specialty products.    

Performance Materials
and Technologies segment profit increased due to acquisitions, net of divestitures, and an increase in operational segment profit,
partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit is primarily
due to productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by lower organic sales volumes and continued investments for growth. Cost
of products and services sold decreased primarily due to lower organic sales volumes, favorable foreign currency translation, and
productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by acquisitions, net of divestitures. 

2015 compared with
2014  

Performance Materials
and Technologies sales decreased due to a decrease in organic sales volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. 

UOP sales decreased by 7% (decreased 6%
organic) driven primarily by lower gas processing revenues due to a significant slowdown in customer projects and decreased equipment,
engineering and licensing revenues partially offset by increased catalyst revenues.    

Process Solutions sales decreased by 12%
(decreased 3% organic) driven primarily by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and lower volumes primarily due
to weakness in projects and field products.    

Advanced Materials sales decreased by 10%
(decreased 7% organic) primarily driven by lower raw material pass-through pricing and unplanned plant outages in resins and chemicals
partially offset by increased volumes in fluorine products.    

Performance Materials
and Technologies segment profit increased due to an increase in operational segment profit partially offset by the unfavorable
impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit is primarily due to price and productivity,
net of inflation partially offset by lower organic sales volumes and continued investments for growth. Cost of products and services
sold decreased primarily due to the favorable impacts of inflation, foreign currency translation, lower organic sales volumes and
productivity, partially offset by continued investments for growth. 

Safety and Productivity Solutions  

2016 compared with 2015  

Safety and Productivity
Solutions sales decreased primarily due to decreased sales volumes and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation,
partially offset by growth from acquisitions. 

Sales in Safety decreased by 3% (decreased
2% organic) due to decreased sales volume in the Industrial Safety business, lower distribution in the Retail business, and the
unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.    

Sales in Productivity Solutions decreased
by 1% (decreased 11% organic) principally due to declines in the Productivity Products business, partially offset by growth from
acquisitions.    

Safety and Productivity
Solutions segment profit decreased due to a decrease in operational segment profit and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency
translation, partially offset by growth from acquisitions. The decrease in operational segment profit is due to decreased sales
volumes, partially offset by price and productivity, net of inflation, and growth from acquisitions. Cost of products and services
decreased primarily due to productivity, net of inflation, decreased sales volumes, and the favorable impact of foreign currency
translation partially offset by growth from acquisitions. 

2015 compared with
2014  

Safety and Productivity
Solutions sales decreased primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation partially offset by acquisitions
and organic sales growth. 

Sales in Safety decreased by 9% (decreased
3% organic) principally due to decreased sales volumes in Industrial Safety and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation,
partially offset by increased sales volume in the Retail business.    

Sales in Productivity Solutions increased
by 7% (increased 8% organic) principally due to acquisitions and increased sales volumes in the Productivity Products business,
partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.    

Safety
and Productivity Solutions segment profit increased due to an increase in operational segment profit and acquisitions,
partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit is due
to the positive impact of price and productivity, net of inflation, and higher sales volumes, partially offset by continued
investment for growth. Cost of products and services sold decreased primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign
currency translation, partially offset by acquisitions and higher sales volumes. 

Repositioning Charges  

See Note 3 Repositioning
and Other Charges of Notes to Financial Statements for a discussion of our repositioning actions and related charges incurred in
2016, 2015 and 2014. These repositioning actions are expected to generate incremental pretax savings of $200 million to $300 million
in 2017 compared with 2016 principally from planned workforce reductions. Cash spending related to our repositioning actions was
$228 million, $118 million and $161 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, and was funded through operating cash flows. In 2017, we expect
cash spending for repositioning actions to be approximately $225 million and to be funded through operating cash flows. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

The Company continues
to manage its businesses to maximize operating cash flows as the primary source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash
and operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper
market, long-term borrowings, and access to the public debt and equity markets. We continue to balance our cash and financing uses
through investment in our existing core businesses, acquisition activity, share repurchases and dividends. 

Cash Flow Summary  

Our cash flows from
operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, are summarized as follows: 

2016 compared with 2015  

Cash provided by operating
activities decreased by $21 million primarily due to a $958 million unfavorable impact from working capital, partially offset by
(i) a $395 million improvement in customer advances and deferred income, (ii) a $171 million increase in net income before the
non-cash pension mark-to-market adjustment, (iii) the absence of $151 million in OEM incentive payments and (iv) lower cash tax
payments of $50 million. 

Cash used for investing
activities decreased by $3,172 million primarily due to (i) a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions of $2,655 million, most significantly
Elster in 2015, (ii) an increase in proceeds from the sales of businesses of $295 million (most significantly Honeywell Technology
Solutions Inc.) and (iii) a $384 million favorable change in settlements of foreign currency exchange contracts used as economic
hedges on certain non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The decreases were partially offset by a
net $146 million increase in investments, primarily short-term marketable securities. 

Cash provided by financing
activities increased by $309 million primarily due to an increase in the net proceeds from debt issuances of $497 million, partially
offset by an increase in cash dividends paid of $189 million including amounts paid to the former UOP Russell LLC noncontrolling
shareholder. 

2015 compared with 2014  

Cash provided by operating
activities increased by $439 million primarily due to a $489 million favorable impact from working capital and a $382 million increase
in net income before the non-cash pension mark-to-market adjustment, partially offset by (i) a $175 million decrease in customer
advances and deferred income, (ii) $151 million in OEM incentives and (iii) increased cash tax payments of $50 million. 

Cash used for investing
activities increased by $4,638 million primarily due to an increase in cash paid for acquisitions of $5,224 million, most significantly
Elster, and a decrease in proceeds of $159 million, primarily from the Friction Materials divestiture, partially offset by a net
$659 million decrease in investments, primarily short-term marketable securities. 

Cash provided by financing
activities increased by $2,365 million primarily due to an increase in the net proceeds from debt issuances of $3,648 million,
partially offset by an increase in net repurchases of common stock of $1,039 million and an increase in cash dividends paid of
$216 million. 

Liquidity  

Each of our businesses
is focused on implementing strategies to increase operating cash flows through revenue growth, margin expansion and improved working
capital turnover. Considering the current economic environment in which each of the businesses operate and their business plans
and strategies, including the focus on growth, cost reduction and productivity initiatives, we believe that cash balances and
operating cash flow will continue to be our principal source of liquidity. In addition to the available cash and operating cash
flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper markets, long-term
borrowings, and access to the public debt and equity markets. At December 31, 2016, a substantial portion of the Company s
cash and cash equivalents were held by foreign subsidiaries. If the amounts held outside of the U.S. were to be repatriated, under
current law, they would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. However, our intent is to
permanently reinvest the vast majority of these funds outside of the U.S. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax
that might be payable if some or all of such earnings were to be repatriated, and the amount of foreign tax credits that would
be available to reduce or eliminate the resulting U.S. income tax liability. 

We monitor the third-party
depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents on a daily basis. Our emphasis is primarily safety of principal
and secondarily maximizing yield of those funds. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure
to any one of these entities. 

A
source of liquidity is our ability to issue short-term debt in the commercial paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at
a discount and have a maturity of not more than 365 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are
available for general corporate purposes as well as for financing acquisitions. The weighted
average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2016 was
(0.13%) and as of December 31, 2015 was 0.26%.  

Our ability to access
the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market
conditions. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent debt-rating agencies. As of December 31, 2016,
Standard and Poor s (S P), Fitch, and Moody s have ratings on our long-term debt of A, A and A2 and short-term
debt of A-1, F1 and P1. S P, Fitch and Moody s have Honeywell s rating outlook as  stable.  To date,
the Company has not experienced any limitations in our ability to access these sources of liquidity. 

We also have a current
shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue additional debt securities,
common stock and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of the offering.
Net proceeds of any offering would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing indebtedness, share
repurchases, capital expenditures and acquisitions. 

See Note 2   Acquisitions
and Divestitures and Note 12   Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements of Notes to Financial Statements for additional discussion
of items impacting our liquidity. 

In 2016, the Company
repurchased $2,079 million of outstanding shares to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including
option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. In April 2016, the Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to a total of $5 billion of Honeywell common stock, of which $4.1 billion remained available as
of December 31, 2016 for additional share repurchases. Honeywell presently expects to repurchase outstanding shares from time to
time to generally offset the dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted
unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. 

In addition to our normal
operating cash requirements, our principal future cash requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, dividends, strategic
acquisitions, share repurchases, employee benefit obligations, environmental remediation costs, asbestos claims, severance and
exit costs related to repositioning actions and debt repayments. 

Specifically, we expect
our primary cash requirements in 2017 to be as follows: 

Capital expenditures we expect to spend
approximately $1.1 billion for capital expenditures in 2017 primarily for growth, production and capacity expansion, cost reduction,
maintenance, and replacement.    

Share repurchases  under the Company s
share repurchase program, $4.1 billion is available as of December 31, 2016 for additional share repurchases. Honeywell presently
expects to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to generally offset the dilutive impact of employee stock-based compensation
plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. The amount and timing
of future repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and our level of operating, financing and other investing activities.    

Dividends we increased our quarterly
dividend rate by 12% to $.6650 per share of common stock effective with the fourth quarter 2016 dividend. The Company intends to
continue to pay quarterly dividends in 2017.    

Asbestos claims we expect our cash
spending for asbestos claims and our cash receipts for related insurance recoveries to be approximately $546 million and $23 million
in 2017.    

Pension contributions in 2017, we are
not required to make contributions to our U.S. pension plans. We plan to make contributions of cash and/or marketable securities
of approximately $130 million ($89 million of marketable securities were contributed in January 2017) to our non-U.S. plans to    

satisfy regulatory funding standards.
The timing and amount of contributions to both our U.S. and non-U.S. plans may be impacted by a number of factors, including the
funded status of the plans. 

Repositioning actions we expect that
cash spending for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute repositioning actions will approximate $225 million in 2017.    

Environmental remediation costs we
expect to spend approximately $250 million in 2017 for remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs.    

We continuously assess
the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution
in order to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify business units that will most benefit from increased investment. We identify
acquisition candidates that will further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also identify businesses
that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These
businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints.
In 2016 and 2015, we realized $565 million and $1 million in cash proceeds from sales and a spin-off of non-strategic businesses. 

Based on past performance
and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs.
Our available cash, committed credit lines and access to the public debt and equity markets, provide additional sources of short-term
and long-term liquidity to fund current operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities. 

Contractual Obligations and Probable Liability Payments  

Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations
and probable liability payments at December 31, 2016: 

(1)  Assumes all long-term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity.  
 
 (2)  Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the normal course of business and
are consistent with our expected requirements.  
 
 (3)  The payment amounts in the table only reflect the environmental liabilities which are probable
and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2016.  
 
 (4)  These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for NARCO and Bendix based on our
asbestos related liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2016. See Asbestos Matters in Note
19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Financial Statements for additional information.  
 
 (5)  These amounts represent our insurance recoveries that are deemed probable for asbestos related
liabilities as of December 31, 2016. See Asbestos Matters in Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Financial Statements
for additional information.  
 
 (6)  The table excludes tax liability payments, including those for unrecognized tax benefits. See Note
5 Income Taxes of Notes to Financial Statements for additional information.   

Environmental Matters  

Accruals for environmental
matters deemed probable and reasonably estimable were $195 million, $194 million and $268 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. In addition,
in 2016 and 2015 we incurred operating costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $83 million and $90 million relating to compliance
with environmental regulations. 

Spending related to known
environmental matters was $228 million, $273 million and $321 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014 and is estimated to be approximately
$250 million in 2017. We expect to fund expenditures for these environmental matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash
expenditures depends on several factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability, personal
injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial techniques
to be utilized and agreement with other parties. 

See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies
of Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion of our environmental matters. 

Financial Instruments  

The following table illustrates
the potential change in fair value for interest rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate one percentage point
increase in interest rates across all maturities and the potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments
based on a 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities at December 31, 2016 and
2015. 

(1)  Asset or (liability).  
 
 (2)  A hypothetical immediate one percentage point decrease in interest rates across all maturities
and a potential change in fair value of foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar
versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities will result in a change in fair value equal to the inverse of the amount
disclosed in the table.  
 
 (3)  Changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts are offset by changes in the fair
value or cash flows of underlying hedged foreign currency transactions.   

See Note 14 Financial Instruments and Fair
Value Measures of Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion on the agreements. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of our
consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and application
of accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently
uncertain. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to the understanding of our financial statements.
Actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our consolidated
financial statements. 

Contingent Liabilities   We
are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar amounts) that arise out
of the conduct of our global business operations or those of previously owned entities, including matters relating to commercial
transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit
plans, intellectual property, legal and environmental, health and safety matters. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse
judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and recognize a liability,
if any, for these contingencies based on a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if
applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental
matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary
requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new
developments (including new discovery of facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system),
changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. See Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Financial Statements
for a discussion of management s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of our environmental and asbestos liabilities
which represent our most significant contingencies. 

Asbestos Related
Contingencies and Insurance Recoveries   Honeywell s involvement in asbestos related personal injury actions
relates to two predecessor companies. Regarding North American Refractories Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we accrued
for pending claims based on terms and conditions in agreements with NARCO, its former parent company, and certain asbestos claimants,
and an estimate of the unsettled claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection. We also accrued for the estimated
value of future NARCO asbestos related claims expected to be asserted against the NARCO Trust. The estimate of future NARCO claims
is based on a commonly accepted methodology used by numerous bankruptcy courts addressing 524(g) trusts and also reflects disputes
concerning implementation of the Trust Distribution Procedures by the NARCO Trust, a lack of sufficient trust claims processing
experience, as well as the stay of all NARCO asbestos claims which remained in place throughout NARCO s Chapter 11 case.
Some critical assumptions underlying this commonly accepted methodology include claims filing rates, disease criteria and payment
values contained in the Trust Distribution Procedures, estimated approval rates of claims submitted to the NARCO Trust and epidemiological
studies estimating disease instances. The estimated value of future NARCO claims was originally established at the time of the
NARCO Chapter 11 filing reflecting claims expected to be asserted against NARCO over a fifteen year period. This projection resulted
in a range of estimated liability of $743 million to $961 million. We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate
than any other amount and accordingly, we have recorded the minimum amount in the range. Regarding Bendix asbestos related claims,
we accrued for the estimated value of pending claims using average resolution values for the previous five years. We also accrued
for the estimated value of future anticipated claims related to Bendix for the next five years based on historic claims filing
experience and dismissal rates, disease classifications, and average resolution values in the tort system for the previous five
years. In light of the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections, as well as certain factors unique to friction product
asbestos claims, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims beyond the next five years. 

In connection with the
recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable.
In assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable
and consistent with our historical dealings and our knowledge of any pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers. While the
substantial majority of our insurance carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered
in our analysis of probable recoveries. Projecting future events is subject to various uncertainties that could cause the insurance
recovery on asbestos related liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and recorded. Given the inherent uncertainty
in making future projections, we reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries in light of any changes
to the projected liability, our recovery experience or other relevant factors that may impact future insurance recoveries. 

See Note 19 Commitments
and Contingencies of Notes to Financial Statements for a discussion of management s judgments applied in the recognition
and measurement of our asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries. 

Defined Benefit
Pension Plans   We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. For financial
reporting purposes, net periodic pension (income) expense is calculated annually based upon a number of actuarial assumptions,
including a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the discount
rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets could materially affect the annual pension (income) expense amount. Annual
pension (income) expense is comprised of a potential mark-to-market adjustment (MTM Adjustment) and service and interest cost,
assumed return on plan assets and prior service amortization (Pension Ongoing (Income) Expense). 

The key assumptions used
in developing our 2016, 2015 and 2014 net periodic pension (income) expense for our U.S. plans included the following: 

The MTM Adjustment represents
the recognition of net actuarial gains or losses in excess of the corridor. Net actuarial gains and losses occur when the actual
experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to value our pension plans or when assumptions change. The primary
factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rate used to value pension obligations as of the
measurement date each year and the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets. The mark-to-market accounting
method results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast MTM Adjustments. MTM charges were $273 million, $67 million
and $249 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

We determine the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets utilizing historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with our
expectations of future market conditions and asset mix considerations (see Note 20 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits of
Notes to Financial Statements for details on the actual various asset classes and targeted asset allocation percentages for our
pension plans). We plan to continue to use an expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.75% for 2017 as this is a long-term rate
based on historical plan asset returns over varying long term periods combined with our expectations of future market conditions
and the asset mix of the plan s investments. 

The discount rate reflects
the market rate on December 31 (measurement date) for high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to our
benefit obligations and is subject to change each year. The discount rate can be volatile from year to year as it is determined
based upon prevailing interest rates as of the measurement date. We used a 4.20% discount rate to determine benefit obligations
as of December 31, 2016, reflecting the decrease in the market interest rate environment since the prior year-end. 

In addition to the potential
for MTM Adjustments, changes in our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events also
affects future pension ongoing (income) expense. The following table highlights the sensitivity of our U.S. pension obligations
and ongoing (income) expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant. These estimates exclude
any potential MTM Adjustment: 

Impact on 2017    

Pension    

Change in Assumption     
      Ongoing Expense     
      Impact on PBO   
 
     0.25 percentage point decrease in discount rate    
     Decrease $20 million    
     Increase $500 million  
 
     0.25 percentage point increase in discount rate    
     Increase $18 million    
     Decrease $460 million  
 
     0.25 percentage point decrease in expected rate of return on assets    
     Increase $40 million    

0.25 percentage point increase in expected rate of return on assets    
     Decrease $40 million    

Pension ongoing income
for all of our pension plans is expected to be approximately $715 million in 2017 compared with pension ongoing income of $601
million in 2016. The expected increase is primarily due to higher asset returns in 2016 and lower interest costs due to a decline
in discount rates, mainly in our U.S. and UK plans. Also, if required, an MTM Adjustment will be recorded in the fourth quarter
of 2017 in accordance with our pension accounting method as previously described. It is difficult to reliably forecast or predict
whether there will be a MTM Adjustment in 2017, and if one is required what the magnitude of such adjustment will be. MTM Adjustments
are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond the control of the Company such as changes in interest rates and the performance
of the financial markets. 

Long-Lived Assets
(including Tangible and Finite-Lived Intangible Assets)   The determination of useful lives (for depreciation/amortization
purposes) and whether or not tangible and intangible assets are impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions,
changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates
and assumptions. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be fully recoverable. The principal factors in considering
when to perform an impairment review are as follows: 

Significant under-performance (i.e., declines in sales, earnings or cash flows) of a business or product line in relation to expectations;    

Annual operating plans or five-year strategic plans that indicate an unfavorable trend in operating performance of a business or product line;    

Significant negative industry or economic trends; or    

Significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.   

Once it is determined
that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping
to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the
asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the
asset grouping and its fair value. We endeavor to utilize the best information available to measure fair value, which is usually
either market prices (if available), level 1 or level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, or an estimate of the future discounted cash
flow, level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The key estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis include assumptions as to expected
industry growth rates, sales volume, selling prices and costs, and the discount rate selected. These estimates are subject to changes
in the economic environment, including market interest rates and expected volatility. Management believes the estimates of future
cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect
the valuations. 

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived
Intangible Assets Impairment Testing    Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized,
but are subject to annual, or more frequent if necessary, impairment testing. In testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets, the fair value is estimated utilizing a discounted cash flow approach utilizing cash flow forecasts in our five year strategic
and annual operating plans adjusted for terminal value assumptions. These impairment tests involve the use of accounting estimates
and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ
from such estimates and assumptions. To address this uncertainty we perform sensitivity analysis on key estimates and assumptions. 

Income Taxes   On
a recurring basis, we assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets by considering all available positive
and negative evidence, such as past operating results, projections 

of future taxable income, enacted tax law
changes and the feasibility and impact of tax planning initiatives. Our projections of future taxable income include a number of
estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs, as well as the timing and amount of reversals of taxable temporary
differences. 

Sales Recognition
on Long-Term Contracts   In 2016, we recognized approximately 13% of our total net sales using the percentage-of-completion
method for long-term contracts. These long-term contracts are measured on the cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts
and the units-of-delivery basis for production-type contracts. Accounting for these contracts involves management judgment in estimating
total contract revenue and cost. Contract revenues are largely determined by negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified
by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance
and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which
can be several years, and the estimation of these costs requires management judgment. Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated
or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections. Significant factors that influence
these estimates include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business
volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are regularly monitored and
revised based on changes in circumstances. Anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recognized when such losses become evident.
We maintain financial controls over the customer qualification, contract pricing and estimation processes to reduce the risk of
contract losses. 

OTHER MATTERS  

Litigation  

See Note 19 Commitments
and Contingencies of Notes to Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 

Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks  

Information relating
to market risks is included in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
under the caption  Financial Instruments . 

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS  

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this
statement. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME  

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this
statement. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this
statement. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH
FLOWS  

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS 
EQUITY  

The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)   

Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Accounting Principles   The
financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. The following is a description of Honeywell s significant accounting policies. 

Principles of
Consolidation   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Honeywell International Inc. and all
of its subsidiaries and entities in which a controlling interest is maintained. Our consolidation policy requires equity investments
that we exercise significant influence over but do not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary of the investee s
activities to be accounted for using the equity method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant influence
over the investee and which we do not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. All intercompany
transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation. 

Redeemable noncontrolling
interest is considered to be temporary equity and is therefore reported outside of permanent equity on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet at the greater of the initial carrying amount adjusted for the noncontrolling interest s share of net income (loss)
or its redemption value. 

Property, Plant
and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including any asset retirement obligations, less
accumulated depreciation. For financial reporting, the straight-line method of depreciation is used over the estimated useful lives
of 10 to 50 years for buildings and improvements and 2 to 16 years for machinery and equipment. Recognition of the fair value of
obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets is required when there is a legal obligation to incur
such costs. Upon initial recognition of a liability, the cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated
over the corresponding asset s useful life. 

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived
Intangible Assets   Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment testing annually as of
March 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. This
testing compares carrying values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value.
We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2016 and determined that there was no impairment as of that date. 

Other Intangible
Assets with Determinable Lives   Other intangible assets with determinable lives consist of customer lists, technology,
patents and trademarks and other intangibles and are amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 2 to 24 years. 

Sales Recognition   Product
and service sales are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, product delivery has occurred or services have
been rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Service sales, principally representing
repair, maintenance and engineering activities are recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered. Sales under
long-term contracts are recorded on a percentage-of-completion method measured on the cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts
and the units-of-delivery basis for production-type contracts. Provisions for anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recorded
in full when such losses become evident. Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements are recognized as each element
is earned based on the relative fair value of each element provided the delivered elements have value to customers on a standalone
basis. Amounts allocated to each element are based on its objectively determined fair value, such as the sales price for the product
or service when it is sold separately or competitor prices for similar products or services. 

Environmental   We
accrue costs related to environmental matters when it is probable that we have incurred a liability related to a contaminated site
and the amount can be reasonably estimated. For additional information, see Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies. 

Asbestos Related
Contingencies and Insurance Recoveries   We recognize a liability for any asbestos related contingency that is probable
of occurrence and reasonably estimable. In connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record
asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. For additional information, see Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies. 

Aerospace Sales
Incentives   We provide sales incentives to commercial aircraft manufacturers and airlines in connection with their
selection of our aircraft equipment, predominately wheel and braking system hardware, avionics, and auxiliary power units, for
installation on commercial aircraft. These incentives consist of 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)   

free or deeply discounted products, credits for future
purchases of product and upfront cash payments. These costs are recognized in the period incurred as cost of products sold or
as a reduction to sales, as appropriate. 

Research and Development   Research
and development costs for company-sponsored research and development projects are expensed as incurred. Such costs are principally
included in cost of products sold and were $2,143 million, $1,856 million and $1,892 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

Stock-Based Compensation
Plans   The principal awards issued under our stock-based compensation plans, which are described in Note 18 Stock-Based
Compensation Plans, are non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units. The cost for such awards is measured at the grant
date based on the fair value of the award. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized
as expense over the requisite service periods (generally the vesting period of the equity award) and is included in selling, general
and administrative expenses. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant to recognize expense for those awards that are expected
to vest and are based on our historical forfeiture rates. 

Pension
Benefits     We recognize net actuarial gains or losses
in excess of 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plans  projected benefit obligation (the corridor)
annually in the fourth quarter each year (MTM Adjustment), and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim remeasurement
is triggered. The remaining components of pension (income) expense, primarily service and interest costs and assumed return on
plan assets, are recognized on a quarterly basis (Pension ongoing (income) expense).  

Foreign Currency
Translation    Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating outside the United States with a functional currency
other than U.S. Dollars are translated into U.S. Dollars using year-end exchange rates. Sales, costs and expenses are translated
at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories and
property, plant and equipment, including related expenses, are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect on the date the assets
were acquired, while monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement adjustments for these
subsidiaries are included in earnings. 

Derivative Financial
Instruments    We minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through our normal
operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate through the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivative
financial instruments are used to manage risk and are not used for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use leveraged
derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments that qualify for hedge accounting must be designated and effective
as a hedge of the identified risk exposure at the inception of the contract. Accordingly, changes in fair value of the derivative
contract must be highly correlated with changes in fair value of the underlying hedged item at inception of the hedge and over
the life of the hedge contract. 

All derivatives are
recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. For derivatives designated as hedges of the
fair value of assets or liabilities, the changes in fair values of both the derivatives and the hedged items are recorded in current
earnings. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the derivatives
are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged items impact
earnings. Cash flows of such derivative financial instruments are classified consistent with the underlying hedged item. 

Income Taxes   
Significant judgment is required in evaluating tax positions. We establish additional reserves for income taxes when, despite
the belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain positions that do not meet the minimum recognition threshold.
The approach for evaluating certain and uncertain tax positions is defined by the authoritative guidance which determines when
a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. In the normal course
of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are examined by various federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We regularly
assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining
the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust
the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a change
in estimate become known. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)   

Cash and cash equivalents   
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and highly liquid investments having an original maturity of three months or less. 

Earnings Per Share   Basic
earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is based on
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and all dilutive potential common shares outstanding. 

Reclassifications   Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements   We consider the applicability and impact of all Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs). ASUs not listed
below were assessed and determined to be either not applicable or are expected to have minimal impact on our consolidated results
of operations, financial position and cash flows (consolidated financial statements). 

In May 2014, the FASB
issued guidance on revenue from contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including
industry-specific guidance. The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or
services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance
provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. Other major provisions include capitalization
of certain contract costs, consideration of time value of money in the transaction price, and allowing estimates of variable consideration
to be recognized before contingencies are resolved in certain circumstances. The guidance also requires enhanced disclosures regarding
the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity s contracts with customers. The
effective date was deferred for one year to the interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017. Early adoption
is permitted as of the original effective date   interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2016. The
guidance permits the use of either a retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We have not yet selected a transition
method. 

We are still finalizing
the analysis to quantify the adoption impact of the provisions of the new standard, but we do not currently expect it to have a
material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Based on the evaluation of our current contracts
and revenue streams, most will be recorded consistently under both the current and new standard. The FASB has issued, and may issue
in the future, interpretive guidance which may cause our evaluation to change. We believe we are following an appropriate timeline
to allow for proper recognition, presentation and disclosure upon adoption effective the beginning of fiscal year 2018. 

In February 2016, the
FASB issued guidance on accounting for leases which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights
and obligations created by those leases. The guidance requires enhanced disclosures regarding the amount, timing, and uncertainty
of cash flows arising from leases that will be effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early
adoption is permitted. The guidance requires the use of a modified retrospective approach. We are currently evaluating the impact
of the guidance on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and related notes to financial statements. 

In March 2016, the FASB
issued amended guidance related to the employee share-based payment accounting. The guidance requires all income tax effect of
awards to be recognized in the income statement, which were previously presented as a component of Total shareowners  equity,
on a prospective basis. The guidance also requires presentation of excess tax benefits as an operating activity on the statement
of cash flows rather than as a financing activity. We have elected to early adopt the standard in the quarter ended September
30, 2016, which requires adoption effective as of the beginning of the fiscal year. The adoption resulted in a diluted earnings
per share benefit of $0.14 and the recognition of excess tax benefits as a reduction in the provision for income taxes of $127
million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Refer to Note 24 Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information for the earnings per
share for the first and second quarters of 2016, recast to reflect the impact from adoption. Cash paid by the Company when directly
withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes are classified as a financing activity on a retrospective basis. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)   

The guidance allows for
an accounting policy election to estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest or account for forfeitures when they occur.
We elected to maintain the current forfeitures policy and will continue to include an estimate of those forfeitures when recognizing
stock compensation expense. Classification of the excess tax benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are presented
on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2016. 

In August 2016, the FASB
issued new guidance intended to reduce diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and payments are classified in the statement
of cash flows, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, the settlement of contingent liabilities arising from a business
combination, proceeds from insurance settlements, and distributions from certain equity method investees. The guidance is effective
for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and early adoption is permitted. The guidance requires application
on a retrospective basis. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance. 

In October 2016, the
FASB issued an accounting standard update which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity
transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Under current GAAP, recognition of the income tax consequences
for asset transfers other than inventory could not be recognized until the asset was sold to a third party. The guidance is intended
to reduce diversity in practice related to the tax consequences of certain types of intra-entity asset transfers, particularly
those involving intellectual property. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017,
and early adoption is permitted. The guidance requires application on a modified retrospective basis. We are currently evaluating
the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. 

Note 2. Acquisitions and Divestitures  

During 2016 and 2015,
we acquired businesses for an aggregate cost (net of cash and debt assumed) of $2,538 million and $5,244 million. 

In August 2016, the Company
acquired Intelligrated, a leading provider of supply chain and warehouse automation technologies, for an aggregate value, net of
cash acquired, of $1,488 million. Intelligrated is part of Safety and Productivity Solutions. The preliminary determination of
the assets and liabilities acquired with Intelligrated have been included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31,
2016, including $1,129 million allocated to goodwill, which is non-deductible for tax purposes. 

In April 2016, the Company
completed the acquisition of Xtralis International Holdings Limited (Xtralis), a leading global provider of aspiration smoke detection
and perimeter security technologies, for an aggregate cost, net of cash acquired and debt assumed, of $515 million. Xtralis is
part of Home and Building Technologies. 

In February 2016, the
Company acquired 100 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of COM DEV International (COM DEV), a leading satellite and space
components provider, for an aggregate value, net of cash acquired and debt assumed, of $347 million. COM DEV is part of Aerospace
and had reported 2015 fiscal year revenues of $159 million. 

I  n
January 2016, the Company acquired the remaining 30 percent noncontrolling interest in UOP Russell LLC, which develops technology
and manufactures modular equipment to process natural gas, for $240 million. UOP Russell LLC is part of Performance Materials and
Technologies.  

In December 2015, the
Company completed the acquisition of the Elster Division of Melrose Industries plc (Elster), for an aggregate value, net of cash
acquired, of $4,899 million. Elster had 2015 revenues of $1,670 million and has been integrated into Home and Building Technologies
and Performance Materials and Technologies. The following table summarizes the final fair value of the acquired Elster assets
and liabilities. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)   

The Elster identifiable
intangible assets primarily include customer relationships, trade names and technology that are being amortized over their estimated
lives ranging from 1 to 20 years using straight line and accelerated amortization methods. The goodwill is non-deductible for
tax purposes. 

As of December 31, 2016,
the purchase accounting for Intelligrated, Xtralis and COM DEV is subject to final adjustment, primarily for the valuation of
amounts allocated to intangible assets and goodwill, determination of useful lives for definite-lived intangible assets, tax balances
and for any pre-acquisition contingencies. Goodwill arising from these acquisitions is non-deductible for tax purposes. The results
of operations from date of acquisition through December 31, 2016 are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 

On October 1, 2016,
the Company completed the tax-free spin-off of its Resins and Chemicals business, part of Performance Materials and Technologies,
into a standalone, publicly-traded company (named AdvanSix Inc. or AdvanSix) to Honeywell shareowners. The assets and liabilities
associated with AdvanSix have been removed from the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The results of operations for
AdvanSix are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective date of the spin-off. 

Honeywell shareowners
of record as of the close of business on September 16, 2016 received one share of AdvanSix common stock for every 25 shares of
Honeywell common stock. Immediately prior to the effective date of the spin-off, AdvanSix incurred debt to make a cash distribution
of $269 million to the Company. At the same time, AdvanSix also incurred $38 million of borrowings in order to fund its post spin-off
working capital. 

The Company entered
into certain agreements with AdvanSix to effect our legal and structural separation including a transition services agreement
with AdvanSix to provide certain administrative and other services for a limited time. 

On September 16, 2016,
the Company completed the sale of Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc. for a sale price of $300 million. The Company recognized
a pre-tax gain of $176 million, which was recorded in Other (income) expense. The Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc. business
was part of Aerospace. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Note 3. Repositioning and Other Charges  

A summary of repositioning and other charges
follows: 

The following table summarizes the pretax distribution of total
net repositioning and other charges by income statement classification: 

The following table summarizes the pretax impact of total net
repositioning and other charges by segment: 

In 2016, we recognized
repositioning charges totaling $369 million including severance costs of $283 million related to workforce reductions of 6,585
manufacturing and administrative positions across our segments. The workforce reductions were primarily related to cost savings
actions taken in connection with our productivity and ongoing functional transformation initiatives; the separation of the former
Automation and Control Solutions reporting segment into two new reporting segments; factory transitions in each of our reportable
operating segments to more cost-effective locations; and achieving acquisition-related synergies. The repositioning charge included
asset impairments of $43 million principally related to the write-off of certain intangible assets in connection with the sale
of a Performance Materials and Technologies business. The repositioning charge included exit costs of $43 million principally for
expenses related to the spin-off of our AdvanSix business and closure obligations associated with factory transitions. Also, $109
million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance, were returned to income as a result of higher attrition than
anticipated in prior severance programs resulting in lower required severance payments, lower than expected severance costs in
certain repositioning actions, and changes in scope of previously announced repositioning actions. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

In 2015, we recognized
repositioning charges totaling $216 million including severance costs of $197 million related to workforce reductions of 6,405
manufacturing and administrative positions across our segments. The workforce reductions were primarily related to cost savings
actions taken in connection with our productivity and ongoing functional transformation initiatives. Also, $53 million of previously
established accruals, primarily for severance, were returned to income due principally to higher attrition than anticipated in
prior severance programs resulting in lower required severance payments, and changes in scope of previously announced repositioning
actions. 

In 2014, we recognized
repositioning charges totaling $184 million including severance costs of $156 million related to workforce reductions of 2,975
manufacturing and administrative positions across our segments. The workforce reductions were primarily related to cost savings
actions taken in connection with our productivity and ongoing functional transformation initiatives; factory transitions in Home
and Building Technologies, Safety and Productivity Solutions and Aerospace to more cost-effective locations; and site consolidations
and organizational realignments of businesses in Home and Building Technologies, Safety and Productivity Solutions and Performance
Materials and Technologies. Also, $38 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance, were returned to income
due principally to the change in scope of a previously announced repositioning action and higher attrition than anticipated in
prior severance programs resulting in lower required severance payments. 

The following table summarizes the status of our total repositioning reserves: 

Certain repositioning
projects in each of our reportable operating segments in 2016, 2015 and 2014 included exit or disposal activities, the costs related
to which will be recognized in future periods when the actual liability is incurred. Such exit and disposal costs were not significant. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Note 4. Other (Income) Expense  

Refer to Note 2 Acquisitions
and Divestitures and Note 12 Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements for further details of transactions recognized in 2016 within
Other (income) expense. 

Note 5. Income Taxes  

Income from continuing operations before taxes  

Tax expense (benefit)   

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

(Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

(1)  Net of changes in valuation allowance 

The effective tax
rate decreased by 1.6 percentage points in 2016 compared to 2015. The decrease was primarily attributable to excess tax
benefits from employee share-based payments arising from adoption of the FASB s amended guidance related to employee
share-based payment accounting, partially offset by increased tax reserves in various jurisdictions and lower tax benefits
from manufacturing incentives. The Company s non-U.S. effective tax rate was 16.7%, a decrease of approximately 2.8
percentage points compared to 2015. The year-over-year decrease in the non-U.S. effective tax rate was primarily driven by
higher earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions and a decrease in the tax impact of restructuring and divestitures. The
effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to overall non-U.S. earnings taxed at
lower rates. 

The effective tax rate
increased by 0.8 percentage points in 2015 compared to 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to decreased tax benefits
from the resolution of tax audits, partially offset by increased tax benefits from manufacturing incentives, the impact of more
income in jurisdictions with lower tax rates and fewer reserves. The Company s non-U.S. effective tax rate for 2015 was 19.5%,
a decrease of approximately 1.8 percentage points compared to 2014. The year-over-year decrease in the non-U.S. effective tax rate
was primarily attributable to higher earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions coupled with lower expense related to reserves in
various jurisdictions, partially offset by an increase from the tax impact of restructuring and dispositions. The effective tax
rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to overall non-U.S. earnings taxed at lower rates. 

Deferred tax assets (liabilities)  

The tax effects of temporary
differences and tax carryforwards which give rise to future income tax benefits and payables are as follows: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

(Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

The change in deferred
tax balance was primarily attributable to deferred tax liabilities transferred in connection with the AdvanSix spin-off. Our gross
deferred tax assets include $1,034 million related to non-U.S. operations comprised principally of net operating losses, capital
loss and tax credit carryforwards (mainly in Canada, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom) and deductible temporary
differences. We maintain a valuation allowance of $619 million against a portion of the non-U.S. gross deferred tax assets. The
change in the valuation allowance resulted in an increase of $69 million, increase of $114 million and decrease of $10 million
to income tax expense in 2016, 2015 and 2014. In the event we determine that we will not be able to realize our net deferred tax
assets in the future, we will reduce such amounts through an increase to income tax expense in the period such determination is
made. Conversely, if we determine that we will be able to realize net deferred tax assets in excess of the carrying amounts, we
will decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a reduction to income tax expense in the period that such determination
is made. 

As of December 31, 2016,
our net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards were as follows: 

Many jurisdictions impose
limitations on the timing and utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. In those instances whereby there
is an expected permanent limitation on the utilization of the net operating loss or tax credit carryforward the deferred tax asset
and amount of the carryforward have been reduced. 

U.S. federal income taxes
have not been provided on undistributed earnings of the vast majority of our international subsidiaries as it is our intention
to reinvest these earnings into the respective subsidiaries. At 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

(Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

December 31, 2016 Honeywell has not provided
for U.S. federal income and non-U.S. withholding taxes on approximately $18.3 billion of such earnings of our non-U.S. operations.
It is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if some or all of such earnings were to be repatriated,
and the amount of foreign tax credits that would be available to reduce or eliminate the resulting U.S. income tax liability. 

As of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 there
were $877 million, $765 million and $659 million of unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized would be recorded as a component
of income tax expense. 

The following table summarizes tax years that
remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions as of December 31, 2016: 

(1) Includes provincial or similar local jurisdictions, as applicable. 

Based on the outcome
of these examinations, or as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably
possible that certain unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions taken on previously filed tax returns will materially change
from those recorded as liabilities in our financial statements. In addition, the outcome of these examinations may impact the valuation
of certain deferred tax assets (such as net operating losses) in future periods. 

Unrecognized tax benefits
for examinations in progress were $398 million, $349 million and $403 million, as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. Estimated
interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes are classified as a component of Tax Expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations and totaled $18 million, $11 million and $24 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.
Accrued interest and penalties were $395 million, $336 million and $325 million, as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

(Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

Note 6. Earnings Per Share  

The details of the earnings
per share calculations for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 are as follows: 

The diluted earnings
per share calculations exclude the effect of stock options when the options  assumed proceeds exceed the average market price
of the common shares during the period. In 2016, 2015, and 2014 the weighted number of stock options excluded from the computations
were 7.5 million, 7.1 million, and 4.7 million. These stock options were outstanding at the end of each of the respective periods. 

Note 7. Accounts, Notes and Other Receivables  

Trade Receivables
includes $1,626 million and $1,590 million of unbilled balances under long-term contracts as of December 31, 2016 and December
31, 2015. These amounts are billed in accordance with the terms of customer contracts to which they relate. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Note 8. Inventories  

Inventories valued at LIFO amounted to $296
million and $399 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015. Had such LIFO inventories been valued at current costs, their carrying
values would have been approximately $65 million and $116 million higher at December 31, 2016 and 2015. 

Note 9. Property, Plant and Equipment - Net  

Depreciation expense was $726 million, $672 million and $667
million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets - Net  

The change in the carrying amount of goodwill
for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 by segment is as follows: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Other intangible assets are comprised of: 

Intangible assets amortization expense was
$304 million, $211 million, and $257 million in 2016, 2015, 2014. Estimated intangible asset amortization expense for each of the
next five years approximates $394 million in 2017, $400 million in 2018, $396 million in 2019, $353 million in 2020, and $300 million
in 2021. 

Note 11. Accrued Liabilities  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Note 12. Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements   

The schedule of principal payments on long-term debt is as follows: 

In February 2016, the Company issued  1,000
million Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2018,  1,000 million 0.65% Senior Notes due 2020,  1,250 million 1.30% Senior
Notes due 2023 and  750 million 2.25% Senior Notes due 2028 (collectively, the  Euro Notes ). The Euro Notes
are senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future
senior unsecured debt and 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

senior to all of Honeywell s subordinated
debt. The offering resulted in gross proceeds of $4,438 million, offset by $23 million in discount and closing costs related to
the offering. 

In October 2016, the
Company issued $1,250 million 1.40% Senior Notes due 2019, $250 million Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2019, $1,500 million 1.85%
Senior Notes due 2021 and $1,500 million 2.50% Senior Notes due 2026 (collectively, the  Notes ). The Notes are senior
unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell s existing and future senior
unsecured debt and senior to all of Honeywell s subordinated debt. The offering resulted in gross proceeds of $4,500 million,
offset by $27 million in discount and closing costs related to the offering. 

In the fourth quarter
of 2016, the Company repurchased the entire outstanding principal amount of its $400 million 5.30 % Senior Notes due 2017, $900
million 5.30% Senior Notes due 2018 and $900 million 5.00% Senior Notes due 2019. The cost related to the early redemption, including
the  make whole premium , was $126 million which was recorded in Other (income) expense. 

On April 29, 2016, the
Company entered into Amendment No. 2 (Amendment) to the Amended and Restated $4 billion Credit Agreement dated as of July 10, 2015,
as amended by the certain Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 30, 2015 (as so amended, the  Credit Agreement ), with
a syndicate of banks. The Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. Commitments under the Credit Agreement
can be increased pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4.5 billion. The Amendment,
among other things, extends the Credit Agreement s termination date from July 10, 2020 to July 10, 2021. 

On April 29, 2016, the
Company entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement (364-Day Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks. The 364-Day
Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. 

On April 29, 2016, the
Company terminated all commitments under the $3 billion credit agreement dated as of September 30, 2015, among the Company, the
lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent. A full description of the Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit
Agreement can be found in the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 29, 2016. 

On August 5, 2016, the
Company entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement (Second 364-Day Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks. The Second
364-Day Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. A full description of the Second 364-day Credit Agreement
can be found in the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 5, 2016. 

On December 23, 2016,
the Company terminated all commitments under the Second 364-day credit agreement dated as of August 5, 2016, among the Company,
the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. 

There have been no borrowings under any of
the credit agreements previously described. 

Note 13. Lease Commitments  

Future minimum lease
payments under operating leases having initial or remaining noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

Rent expense was $387
million, $390 million and $420 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

Note 14. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures  

Credit and Market
Risk   Financial instruments, including derivatives, expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance and to
market risk related to changes in interest and currency exchange rates. We manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through
specific minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk.
Our counterparties in derivative transactions are substantial investment and commercial banks with significant experience using
such derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value and cash flows of our derivative and other
financial instruments considering reasonably possible changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates and restrict the use
of derivative financial instruments to hedging activities. 

We continually monitor
the creditworthiness of our customers to which we grant credit terms in the normal course of business. The terms and conditions
of our credit sales are designed to mitigate or eliminate concentrations of credit risk with any single customer. Our sales are
not materially dependent on a single customer or a small group of customers. 

Foreign Currency
Risk Management   We conduct our business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign currencies. Our exposure
to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates arises from international financing activities between subsidiaries,
foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and transactions arising from international trade. Our primary objective
is to preserve the U.S. Dollar value of foreign currency denominated cash flows and earnings. We attempt to hedge currency exposures
with natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign currency
exchange forward and option contracts (foreign currency exchange contracts) with third parties. 

We hedge monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. Prior to conversion into U.S. dollars, these assets and liabilities are
remeasured at spot exchange rates in effect on the balance sheet date. The effects of changes in spot rates are recognized in earnings
and included in other (income) expense. We partially hedge forecasted sales and purchases, which occur in the next twelve months
and are denominated in non-functional currencies, with foreign currency exchange contracts. Changes in the forecasted non-functional
currency cash flows due to movements in exchange rates are substantially offset by changes in the fair value of the foreign currency
exchange contracts designated as hedges. Market value gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in earnings when the hedged
transaction is recognized. Open foreign currency exchange contracts mature in the next twelve months. At December 31, 2016 and
2015, we had contracts with notional amounts of $9,554 million and $10,538 million to exchange foreign currencies, principally
the U.S. Dollar, Euro, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Indian Rupee, Mexican Peso, Singapore Dollar, U.A.E. Dirham
and Swiss Franc. 

We have also
designated foreign currency debt as hedges against portions of our net investment in foreign operations during the year ended
December 31, 2016. Gains or losses on the effective portion of the foreign currency debt designated as a net investment hedge
are recorded in the same manner as foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company did not have ineffectiveness related
to net investment hedges during the year ended December 31, 2016. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

Interest Rate Risk
Management   We use a combination of financial instruments, including long-term, medium-term and short-term financing,
variable-rate commercial paper, and interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related
overall cost of borrowing. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively
changed $1,850 million and $1,100 million of fixed rate debt at rates of 3.39% and 4.00% to LIBOR based floating rate debt. Our interest
rate swaps mature at various dates through 2026. 

Fair Value of Financial
Instruments   The FASB s accounting guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). 

Financial and nonfinancial
assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
measurement. The following table sets forth the Company s financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair
value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2016 and 2015: 

The foreign currency
exchange contracts and interest rate swap agreements are valued using broker quotations, or market transactions in either the listed
or over-the-counter markets. As such, these derivative instruments are classified within level 2. The Company also holds investments
in commercial paper, certificates of deposits, and time deposits that are designated as available for sale and are valued using
published prices based off observable market data. As such, these investments are classified within level 2. 

The carrying value of
cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts and notes receivables, payables, commercial paper and short-term borrowings contained
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximates fair value. The following table sets forth the Company s financial assets
and liabilities that were not carried at fair value: 

The Company determined
the fair value of the long-term receivables by discounting based upon the terms of the receivable and counterparty details including
credit quality. As such, the fair value of these receivables is considered level 2. The Company determined the fair value of the
long-term debt and related current maturities utilizing transactions in the listed markets for identical or similar liabilities.
As such, the fair value of the long-term debt and related current maturities is considered level 2 as well. 

Interest rate swap agreements
are designated as hedge relationships with gains or losses on the derivative recognized in interest and other financial charges
offsetting the gains and losses on the underlying debt 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

being hedged. Losses on interest rate swap
agreements recognized in earnings were $71 million and $2 million in the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. Gains on interest
rate swap agreements recognized in earnings were $38 million in the year ended December 31, 2014. Gains and losses are fully offset
by losses and gains on the underlying debt being hedged. 

We also economically
hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates principally with forward contracts. These contracts are marked-to-market
with the resulting gains and losses recognized in earnings offsetting the gains and losses on the non-functional currency denominated
monetary assets and liabilities being hedged. We recognized $232 million of income in other (income) expense in the year ended
December 31, 2016. We recognize $86 million and $181 million of expense in other (income) expense in the years ended December 31,
2015 and 2014. See Note 4 Other (Income) Expense for further details of the net impact of these economic foreign currency hedges. 

Note 15. Other Liabilities  

Years Ended  December 31,  

2016    
     2015  
 
     Pension and other employee related    
     $  2,084       
     $  2,461     
 
     Income taxes    
        1,041       
        1,009     
 
     Environmental    
        259       
        265     
 
     Insurance    
        253       
        257     
 
     Asset retirement obligations    
        63       
        65     
 
     Deferred income    
        81       
        99     
 
     Other    
        329       
        192     

$  4,110       
     $  4,348     

Note 16. Capital Stock  

We are authorized to
issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, with a par value of $1. Common shareowners are entitled to receive such dividends
as may be declared by the Board of Directors, are entitled to one vote per share, and are entitled, in the event of liquidation,
to share ratably in all the assets of Honeywell which are available for distribution to the common shareowners. Common shareowners
do not have preemptive or conversion rights. Shares of common stock issued and outstanding or held in the treasury are not liable
to further calls or assessments. There are no restrictions on us relative to dividends or the repurchase or redemption of common
stock. 

In April 2016, the Board
of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $5 billion of Honeywell common stock and approximately $4.1 billion remained available
as of December 31, 2016. Under the Company s previous share repurchase plan announced in December 2013 the Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $5 billion of Honeywell common stock and $2.2 billion remained available as of December 31,
2015. 

We purchased approximately
19.3 million and 18.8 million shares of our common stock in 2016 and 2015, for $2,079 million and $1,884 million. 

We are authorized to
issue up to 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value, and can determine the number of shares of each series, and
the rights, preferences and limitations of each series. At December 31, 2016, there was no preferred stock outstanding. 

57    

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts)  

Note 17. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The changes in accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) are provided in the tables below. Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interest consists predominantly of net income. 

Components of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss)    

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts)  

Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) by Component 

Reclassifications Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)       

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts)  

Note 18. Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

The 2016 Stock Incentive
Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (2016 Plan) and 2016 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell
International Inc. (2016 Directors Plan) were both approved by the shareowners at the Annual Meeting of Shareowners effective on
April 25, 2016. Following approval of both plans, we have not and will not grant any new awards under any previously existing stock-based
compensation plans. At December 31, 2016, there were 46,365,609, and 960,609 shares of Honeywell common stock available for future
grants under terms of the 2016 Plan and 2016 Directors Plan, respectively. 

Stock Options   The
exercise price, term and other conditions applicable to each option granted under our stock plans are generally determined by the
Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board. The exercise price of stock options is set on the grant date and
may not be less than the fair market value per share of our stock on that date. The fair value is recognized as an expense over
the employee s requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the award). Options generally vest over a four-year
period and expire after ten years. 

The fair value of each option
award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities
from traded options on our common stock and historical volatility of our common stock. We used a Monte Carlo simulation model to
derive an expected term which represents an estimate of the time options are expected to remain outstanding. Such model uses historical
data to estimate option exercise activity and post-vest termination behavior. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual
life of the option is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 

Compensation cost on a pre-tax
basis related to stock options recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $87 million,
$78 million and $85 million. The associated future income tax benefit recognized in 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $29 million, $26 million
and $31 million. 

The following table sets
forth fair value per share information, including related weighted-average assumptions, used to determine compensation cost: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts)  

(1) Estimated on date of grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 

The following table summarizes
information about stock option activity for the three years ended December 31, 2016: 

(1) Represents the sum of vested options of 15.5 million and expected to vest options of 11.6 million. Expected to vest options are derived by applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding unvested options of 13.4 million. 

The following table summarizes
information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2016: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts)  

(1) Average remaining contractual life in years. 

There were 17,202,377,
and 16,019,742 options exercisable at weighted average exercise prices of $55.11 and $49.40 at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

The following table
summarizes the financial statement impact from stock options exercised: 

(1) Represents the amount by which the stock price exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of exercise. 

At December 31, 2016 there
was $126 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 2.29 years. The total fair value of options vested during 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $76 million,
$73 million and $72 million. 

Restricted Stock Units   Restricted
stock unit (RSU) awards entitle the holder to receive one share of common stock for each unit when the units vest. RSUs are issued
to certain key employees and directors as compensation at fair market value at the date of grant. RSUs typically become fully vested
over periods ranging from three to seven years and are payable in Honeywell common stock upon vesting. 

The following table summarizes
information about RSU activity for the three years ended December 31, 2016: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts)  

As of December 31,
2016, there was approximately $193 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs granted under our
stock plans which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.57 years. 

The following table summarizes information
about income statement impact from RSUs for the three years ended December 31, 2016: 

Note 19. Commitments and Contingencies  

Environmental Matters  

We are subject to various
federal, state, local and foreign government requirements relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a
general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage
and personal injury and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous substances are in accordance with environmental
and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like other
companies engaged in similar businesses, have incurred remedial response and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and
are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing
hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in
the future. 

With respect to environmental
matters involving site contamination, we continually conduct studies, individually or jointly with other potentially responsible
parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial techniques. It is our policy to record appropriate liabilities for environmental
matters when remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities
are based on our best estimate of the undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded liabilities
are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal information becomes available.
Given the uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement policies, the impact of other potentially responsible
parties, technology and information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to develop an estimate of the
range of reasonably possible environmental loss in excess of 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund
expenditures for these matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a number of factors, including
the timing of remedial investigations and feasibility studies, the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability,
personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreements
with other parties. 

The following table summarizes information concerning
our recorded liabilities for environmental costs: 

Environmental liabilities are included in the
following balance sheet accounts: 

We do not currently possess
sufficient information to reasonably estimate the amounts of environmental liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of
studies, litigation or settlements, and neither the timing nor the amount of the ultimate costs associated with environmental matters
can be determined although they could be material to our consolidated results of operations and operating cash flows in the periods
recognized or paid. However, considering our past experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that environmental matters
will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. 

Onondaga Lake, Syracuse,
NY   In 2016, we largely completed a dredging/capping remedy of Onondaga Lake pursuant to a consent decree approved
by the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York in January 2007. Some additional long-term monitoring
and maintenance activities will continue, as required by the consent decree. Honeywell is also conducting remedial investigations
and activities at other sites in Syracuse. We have recorded reserves for these investigations and activities where appropriate,
consistent with the accounting policy described above. 

Honeywell has entered into
a cooperative agreement with potential natural resource trustees to assess alleged natural resource damages relating to this site.
It is not possible to predict the outcome or duration of this assessment, or the amounts of, or responsibility for, any damages. 

Asbestos Matters  

Honeywell is a defendant
in asbestos related personal injury actions related to two predecessor companies: 

North American Refractories Company (NARCO),
which was sold in 1986, produced refractory products (bricks and cement used in high temperature applications). Claimants consist
largely of individuals who allege exposure to NARCO asbestos-containing refractory products in an occupational setting.    

Bendix Friction Materials (Bendix) business,
which was sold in 2014, manufactured automotive brake parts that contained chrysotile asbestos in an encapsulated form. Claimants
consist largely of individuals who allege exposure to asbestos from brakes from either performing or being in the vicinity of individuals
who performed brake replacements.    

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

The following tables summarize information concerning
NARCO and Bendix asbestos related balances: 

Asbestos Related Liabilities  

Insurance Recoveries for Asbestos Related Liabilities  

NARCO and Bendix asbestos related balances are
included in the following balance sheet accounts: 

NARCO Products  
 In connection with NARCO s emergence from bankruptcy on April 30, 2013, a federally authorized 524(g) trust (NARCO
Trust) was established for the evaluation and resolution of all existing 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

and future NARCO asbestos claims. Both Honeywell
and NARCO are protected by a permanent channeling injunction barring all present and future individual actions in state or federal
courts and requiring all asbestos related claims based on exposure to NARCO asbestos-containing products to be made against the
NARCO Trust. The NARCO Trust reviews submitted claims and determines award amounts in accordance with established Trust Distribution
Procedures approved by the Bankruptcy Court which set forth the criteria claimants must meet to qualify for compensation including,
among other things, exposure and medical criteria that determine the award amount. In addition, Honeywell provided, and continues
to provide, input to the design of control procedures for processing NARCO claims, and has on-going audit rights to review and
monitor the claims processors  adherence to the established requirements of the Trust Distribution Procedures. 

Honeywell is
obligated to fund NARCO asbestos claims submitted to the NARCO Trust which qualify for payment under the Trust Distribution
Procedures (Annual Contribution Claims), subject to annual caps of $140 million in the years 2017 and 2018 and $145 million
for each year thereafter. However, the initial $100 million of claims processed through the NARCO Trust (the Initial Claims
Amount) will not count against the annual cap and any unused portion of the Initial Claims Amount will roll over to
subsequent years until fully utilized. In 2015, Honeywell filed suit against the NARCO Trust in Bankruptcy Court alleging
breach of certain provisions of the Trust Agreement and Trust Distribution Procedures. The parties agreed to dismiss the
proceeding without prejudice pursuant to an 18 month Standstill Agreement that expires in October 2017. Claims processing will
continue during this period subject to a defined dispute resolution process. As of December 31, 2016, Honeywell has not made
any payments to the NARCO Trust for Annual Contribution Claims. 

Honeywell is also responsible
for payments due to claimants pursuant to settlement agreements reached during the pendency of the NARCO bankruptcy proceedings
that provide for the right to submit claims to the NARCO Trust subject to qualification under the terms of the settlement agreements
and Trust Distribution Procedures criteria (Pre-established Unliquidated Claims), which amounts are estimated at $150 million and
are expected to be paid during the initial years of trust operations ($5 million of which has been paid since the effective date
of the NARCO Trust). Such payments are not subject to the annual cap described above. 

Our consolidated financial
statements reflect an estimated liability for pre-established unliquidated claims ($145 million), unsettled claims pending as of
the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection ($31 million) and for the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos claims expected
to be asserted against the NARCO Trust ($743 million). The estimate of future NARCO claims is based on a commonly accepted methodology
used by numerous bankruptcy courts addressing 524(g) trusts and also reflects disputes concerning implementation of the Trust Distribution
Procedures by the NARCO Trust, a lack of sufficient trust claims processing experience, as well as the stay of all NARCO asbestos
claims which remained in place throughout NARCO s Chapter 11 case. Some critical assumptions underlying this commonly accepted
methodology include claims filing rates, disease criteria and payment values contained in the Trust Distribution Procedures, estimated
approval rates of claims submitted to the NARCO Trust and epidemiological studies estimating disease instances. The estimated value
of future NARCO claims was originally established at the time of the NARCO Chapter 11 filing reflecting claims expected to be asserted
against NARCO over a fifteen year period. This projection resulted in a range of estimated liability of $743 million to $961 million.
We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount and accordingly, we have recorded the minimum
amount in the range. 

Our insurance receivable
corresponding to the estimated liability for pending and future NARCO asbestos claims reflects coverage which reimburses Honeywell
for portions of NARCO-related indemnity and defense costs and is provided by a large number of insurance policies written by dozens
of insurance companies in both the domestic insurance market and the London excess market. We conduct analyses to estimate the
probable amount of insurance that is recoverable for asbestos claims. While the substantial majority of our insurance carriers
are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. We
made judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our historical dealings and our
knowledge of any pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers. 

Projecting future events
is subject to many uncertainties that could cause the NARCO-related asbestos liabilities or assets to be higher or lower than those
projected and recorded. Given the uncertainties, we review our estimates periodically, and update them based on our experience
and other relevant factors. Similarly, we will reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries in light
of any changes to the projected liability or other developments that may impact insurance recoveries. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

Bendix
Products     The following tables present information regarding Bendix  
  related asbestos claims activity  :  

Honeywell has experienced average resolution values
per claim excluding legal costs as follows: 

It is not possible to predict
whether resolution values for Bendix-related asbestos claims will increase, decrease or stabilize in the future. 

Our consolidated financial
statements reflect an estimated liability for resolution of pending (claims actually filed as of the financial statement date)
and future Bendix-related asbestos claims. We have valued Bendix pending and future claims using average resolution values for
the previous five years. We update the resolution values used to estimate the cost of Bendix pending and future claims during the
fourth quarter each year. 

The liability for future
claims represents the estimated value of future asbestos related bodily injury claims expected to be asserted against Bendix over
the next five years. Such estimated cost of future Bendix-related asbestos claims is based on historic claims filing experience
and dismissal rates, disease classifications, and resolution values in the tort system for the previous five years. In light of
the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections, as well as certain factors unique to friction product asbestos claims,
we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims beyond the next five years. The methodology used
to estimate the liability for future claims is similar to that used to estimate the liability for future NARCO-related asbestos
claims. 

Our insurance receivable
corresponding to the liability for settlement of pending and future Bendix asbestos claims reflects coverage which is provided
by a large number of insurance policies written by dozens of insurance companies in both the domestic insurance market and the
London excess market. Based on our ongoing analysis of the probable insurance recovery, insurance receivables are recorded in the
financial statements simultaneous with the recording of the estimated liability for the underlying asbestos claims. This determination
is based on our analysis of the underlying insurance policies, our historical experience with our insurers, our ongoing review
of the solvency of our insurers, judicial determinations relevant to our insurance programs, and our consideration of the impacts
of any settlements reached with our insurers. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

Honeywell
believes it has sufficient insurance coverage and reserves to cover all pending Bendix-related asbestos claims and Bendix-related
asbestos claims estimated to be filed within the next five years. Although it is impossible to predict the outcome of either pending
or future Bendix-related asbestos claims, we do not believe that such claims would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial position in light of our insurance coverage and our prior experience in resolving such claims. If the rate and types
of claims filed, the average resolution value of such claims and the period of time over which claim settlements are paid (collectively,
the Variable Claims Factors) do not substantially change, Honeywell would not expect future Bendix-related asbestos claims to have
a material adverse effect on our results of operations or operating cash flows in any fiscal year. No assurances can be given,
however, that the Variable Claims Factors will not change . 

Other Matters  

We are subject to a number
of other lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of
our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions
and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual property, and environmental, health and safety matters. We recognize a liability
for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of adverse judgments
of outcomes in these matters, as well as potential ranges of possible losses (taking into consideration any insurance recoveries),
based on a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Included
in these other matters are the following: 

Honeywell
v. United Auto Workers (UAW) et. al   In July 2011, Honeywell filed an action in federal court (District of New Jersey)
against the UAW and all former employees who retired under a series of Master Collective Bargaining Agreements (MCBAs) between
Honeywell and the UAW seeking a declaratory judgment that certain express limitations on its obligation to contribute toward the
healthcare coverage of such retirees (the CAPS) set forth in the MCBAs may be implemented, effective January 1, 2012. The UAW and
certain retiree defendants filed a mirror suit in the Eastern District of Michigan alleging that the MCBAs do not provide for CAPS
on the Company s liability for healthcare coverage. The New Jersey action was dismissed and Honeywell subsequently answered
the UAW s complaint in Michigan and asserted counterclaims for fraudulent inducement, negligent misrepresentation and breach
of implied warranty. The UAW filed a motion to dismiss these counterclaims. The court dismissed Honeywell s fraudulent inducement
and negligent misrepresentation claims, but let stand the claim for breach of implied warranty. In the second quarter of 2014,
the parties agreed to stay the proceedings with respect to those retirees who retired before the initial inclusions of the CAPS
in the 2003 MCBA until the Supreme Court decided the  M G Polymers USA, LLC v. Tackett  case  .  
In a ruling on January 26, 2015, the Supreme Court held that retiree health insurance benefits provided in collective bargaining
agreements do not carry an inference that they are vested or guaranteed to continue for life and that the  vesting 
issue must be decided pursuant to ordinary principles of contract law. The stay of the proceedings has been lifted and the case
is again proceeding. Based on the Supreme Court s ruling, Honeywell is confident that the CAPS will be upheld and that its
liability for healthcare coverage premiums with respect to the putative class will be limited as negotiated and expressly set forth
in the applicable MCBAs. In the event of an adverse ruling, however, Honeywell s other postretirement benefits for pre-2003
retirees would increase by approximately $129 million, reflecting the estimated value of these CAPS.  

In December 2013, the UAW
and certain of the plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment with respect to those retirees who retired after the
initial inclusion of the CAPS in the 2003 MCBA. The UAW sought a ruling that the 2003 MCBA did not limit Honeywell s obligation
to contribute to healthcare coverage for the post-2003 retirees. That motion remains pending. Honeywell is confident that the Court
will find that the 2003 MCBA does, in fact, limit Honeywell s retiree healthcare obligation for post-2003 retirees. In the
event of an adverse ruling, however, Honeywell s other postretirement benefits for post-2003 retirees would increase by approximately
$95 million, reflecting the estimated value of these CAPS. 

Joint Strike Fighter
Investigation -   In 2013 the Company received subpoenas from the Department of Justice requesting information relating primarily
to parts manufactured in the United Kingdom and China used in the F-35 fighter jet. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigation.
While we believe that Honeywell has complied with all relevant U.S. laws and regulations regarding the manufacture of these sensors,
it is not possible 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  

to predict the outcome of the investigation
or what action, if any, may result from it. 

Given the uncertainty inherent
in litigation and investigations (including the specific matters referenced above), we do not believe it is possible to develop
estimates of reasonably possible loss in excess of current accruals for these matters (other than as specifically set forth above).
Considering our past experience and existing accruals, we do not expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in
the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. Because most contingencies are resolved
over long periods of time, potential liabilities are subject to change due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy
or the impact of evidentiary requirements, which could cause us to pay damage awards or settlements (or become subject to equitable
remedies) that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or operating cash flows in the periods recognized
or paid. 

Warranties and Guarantees   

In the normal course of business
we issue product warranties and product performance guarantees. We accrue for the estimated cost of product warranties and performance
guarantees based on contract terms and historical experience at the time of sale. Adjustments to initial obligations for warranties
and guarantees are made as changes to the obligations become reasonably estimable. The following table summarizes information concerning
our recorded obligations for product warranties and product performance guarantees. 

Product warranties and product performance guarantees
are included in the following balance sheet accounts: 

Note 20. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits  

We sponsor both funded and
unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of our employees and retirees. Pension benefits
for many of our U.S. employees are provided through non-contributory, qualified and non-qualified defined benefit plans. All non-union
hourly and salaried employees joining Honeywell for the first time after December 31, 2012, are not eligible to participate in
Honeywell s U.S. defined benefit pension plans. We also sponsor defined benefit pension plans which cover non-U.S. employees
who are not U.S. citizens, in certain jurisdictions, principally the UK, Netherlands, Germany, and Canada. Other pension plans
outside of the U.S. are not material to the Company either individually or in the aggregate. 

We also sponsor postretirement
benefit plans that provide health care benefits and life insurance coverage mainly to U.S. eligible retirees. None of Honeywell s
U.S. employees are eligible for a retiree medical subsidy from the Company. In addition, more than 80% of Honeywell s U.S.
retirees either have no Company subsidy or have a fixed-dollar subsidy amount. This significantly limits our exposure to the impact
of future health care cost increases. The retiree medical and life insurance plans are not funded. Claims and expenses are paid
from our operating cash flow. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

The following tables
summarize the balance sheet impact, including the benefit obligations, assets and funded status associated with our significant
pension and other postretirement benefit plans. 

(1) Included in Other assets on Consolidated Balance Sheet  
 
     (2) Included in Accrued liabilities on Consolidated Balance Sheet  
 
     (3) Included in Other liabilities - noncurrent on Consolidated Balance Sheet  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

(1) In 2015, elimination of retiree medical insurance coverage for certain retirees. Amount recognized as part of net postretirement benefit cost over the expected future lifetime of the remaining participants in the plan.   
 
      (2) Excludes non-U.S. plans of $43 million and $42 million in 2016 and 2015.   

Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive
(income) loss associated with our significant pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2016 and 2015 are
as follows: 

The components of net
periodic benefit (income) cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss for our significant pension and
other postretirement benefit plans include the following components: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

The estimated prior service
(credit) for pension benefits that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss into net periodic benefit
(income) cost in 2017 are expected to be ($43) million and ($1) million for U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

The estimated net loss
and prior service (credit) for other postretirement benefits that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive (income)
loss into net periodic benefit (income) in 2017 are expected to  be $14 million and ($70)
million . 

Major actuarial assumptions
used in determining the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit (income) cost for our significant benefit plans are presented
in the following table as weighted averages. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

The discount rate for
our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefits plans reflects the current rate at which the associated liabilities could be
settled at the measurement date of December 31. To determine discount rates for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit
plans, we use a modeling process that involves matching the expected cash outflows of our benefit plans to a yield curve constructed
from a portfolio of high quality, fixed-income debt instruments. We use the single weighted-average yield of this hypothetical
portfolio as a discount rate benchmark. The discount rate used to determine the other postretirement benefit obligation is lower
principally due to a shorter expected duration of other postretirement plan obligations as compared to pension plan obligations. 

During the fourth quarter
of 2015 we changed the methodology used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit (income) cost
for our significant pension plans. Previously, we estimated such cost components utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate
derived from the yield curve used to measure the pension benefit obligation. The new methodology utilizes a full yield curve approach
in the estimation of these cost components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination
of the pension benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows and provides a more precise measurement of service and
interest costs by improving the correlation between projected cash flows and their corresponding spot rates. The change did not
affect the measurement of our pension obligation and was applied prospectively as a change in estimate. For our U.S. pension plans,
the single weighted average spot rates used to determine service and interest costs for 2017 are 4.42% and 3.49%. 

Our expected rate of
return on U.S. plan assets of 7.75% is a long-term rate based on historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined
with current market conditions and broad asset mix considerations. We review the expected rate of return on an annual basis and
revise it as appropriate. 

For non-U.S. benefit
plans actuarial assumptions reflect economic and market factors relevant to each country. 

Pension Benefits  

Included in the aggregate
data in the tables above are the amounts applicable to our pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations exceeding the fair
value of plan assets. Amounts related to such plans were as follows: 

Accumulated benefit obligation
for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $17.3 billion and $16.9 billion and for our Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
were $6.4 billion and $6.2 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015. 

Our asset investment
strategy for our U.S. pension plans focuses on maintaining a diversified portfolio using various asset classes in order to achieve
our long-term investment objectives on a risk adjusted basis. Our 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

actual invested positions in various securities
change over time based on short and longer-term investment opportunities. To achieve our objectives, we have established long-term
target allocations as follows: 60%-70% equity securities, 10%-20% fixed income securities and cash, 5%-15% real estate investments,
and 10%-20% other types of investments. Equity securities include publicly-traded stock of companies located both inside and outside
the United States. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries, mortgage-backed securities,
and U.S. Treasuries. Real estate investments include direct investments in commercial properties and investments in real estate
funds. Other types of investments include investments in private equity and hedge funds that follow several different strategies.
We review our assets on a regular basis to ensure that we are within the targeted asset allocation ranges and, if necessary, asset
balances are adjusted back within target allocations. 

Our non-U.S. pension
assets are typically managed by decentralized fiduciary committees with the Honeywell Corporate Investments group providing funding
and investment guidance. Our non-U.S. investment policies are different for each country as local regulations, funding requirements,
and financial and tax considerations are part of the funding and investment allocation process in each country. 

In accordance with ASU
2015-07,  Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) , certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset
value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value
amounts presented in the following tables are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented
for the total pension benefits plan assets. 

The fair values of both
our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans assets by asset category are as follows: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

The following table summarizes changes in
the fair value of Level 3 assets for both U.S. and Non-U.S. plans: 

The Company enters into
futures contracts to gain exposure to certain markets. Sufficient cash or cash equivalents are held by our pension plans to cover
the notional value of the futures contracts. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, our U.S. plans had contracts with notional amounts
of $3,775 million and $2,613 million. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, our non-U.S. plans had contracts with notional amounts of
$55 million and $54 million. In both our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, the notional derivative exposure is primarily related
to outstanding equity futures contracts. 

Common stocks, preferred
stocks, real estate investment trusts, and short-term investments are valued at the closing price reported in the active market
in which the individual securities are traded. Corporate bonds, mortgages, asset-backed securities, and government securities are
valued either by using pricing models, bids provided by brokers or dealers, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics
or discounted cash flows and as such include adjustments for certain risks that may not be observable such as credit and liquidity
risks. Certain securities are held in collective trust funds which are valued using net asset values provided by the administrators
of the funds. Investments in private equity, debt, real estate and hedge funds and direct private investments are valued at estimated
fair value based on quarterly financial information received from the investment advisor and/or general partner. Investments in
real estate properties are valued on a quarterly basis using the income approach. Valuation estimates are periodically supplemented
by third party appraisals. 

Our general funding
policy for qualified defined benefit pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to satisfy regulatory funding standards.
In 2016, 2015 and 2014, we were not required to make contributions to our U.S. pension plans and no contributions were made. We
are not required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans in 2017. In 2016, contributions of $149 million were made
to our non-U.S. pension plans to satisfy regulatory funding requirements. In 2017, we expect to make contributions of cash and/or
marketable securities of approximately $130 million to our non-U.S. pension plans to satisfy regulatory funding standards. Contributions
for both our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans do not reflect benefits paid directly from Company assets. 

Benefit payments, including
amounts to be paid from Company assets, and reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Other Postretirement Benefits  

The assumed health care
cost trend rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost
trend rate would have the following effects: 

1 percentage point  

Increase    
     Decrease  
 
     Effect on total of service and interest cost components     
     $  1       
     $  (1  )  
 
     Effect on postretirement benefit obligation     
     $  25       
     $  (18  )  

Benefit payments reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:     

Note 21. Segment Financial Data  

We globally manage our
business operations through four reportable operating segments. Segment information is consistent with how management reviews the
businesses, makes investing and resource allocation decisions and assesses operating performance. 

Honeywell s senior
management evaluates segment performance based on segment profit. Segment profit is measured as business unit income (loss) before
taxes excluding general corporate unallocated expense, other income (expense), interest and other financial charges, pension and
other postretirement benefits (expense), stock compensation expense and repositioning and other charges. 

In July 2016, the Company
announced the realignment of  the business units comprising its Automation and Control Solutions
reporting segment by forming two new reportable operating segments: Home and Building Technologies and Safety and Productivity
Solutions.   Home and Building Technologies includes Environmental   Energy Solutions, Security and Fire, and Building
Solutions and Distribution. Additionally, the Industrial Combustion/Thermal business, previously part of Environmental   Energy
Solutions in Automation and Control Solutions, became part of Performance Materials and Technologies.  Safety
and Productivity Solutions  includes 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Sensing   Productivity Solutions and
Industrial Safety, as well as the Intelligrated business.  Under the realigned segment reporting
structure, the Company s reportable operating segments are Aerospace, Home and Building Technologies, Performance Materials
and Technologies and Safety and Productivity Solutions.  

These realignments have
no impact on the Company s historical consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Prior period
amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period segment presentation. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

A reconciliation of segment profit to consolidated
income from continuing operations before taxes are as follows: 

(1)     
      Equity income (loss) of affiliated companies is included in Segment Profit.   
 
      (2)  
      Amounts included in cost of products and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.   

Note 22. Geographic Areas - Financial Data  

(1) Sales between geographic areas approximate market and are not significant. Net sales are classified according to their country of origin. Included in United States net sales are export sales of $5,290 million, $5,526 million and $5,647 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014.  

  (2) Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment - net.  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
(CONTINUED)  

  (Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts)  

Note 23. Supplemental Cash Flow Information  

Note 24. Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information  

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Honeywell International
Inc. 

 Morris Plains, New Jersey: 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Honeywell International Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and shareowners  equity for the years
then ended. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)   
  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an
opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 

We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management,
and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of the inherent limitations of internal
control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of
the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Honeywell International Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on the
criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)   
  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company has changed its method of accounting for employee share-based payments in 2016 and 2015 due to
the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board s Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09,  Compensation Stock
Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . 

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 

 Parsippany, New Jersey 

 February 10, 2017 

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm  

To The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Honeywell International
Inc.: 

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity and cash flows   for the year ended December 31, 2014
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations and cash flows of Honeywell International Inc. and its subsidiaries
for the year ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements   based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these financial statements in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

 Florham Park, NJ 

 February 13, 2015, except for the change in composition of reportable
segments discussed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, as to which the date is February 10, 2017 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements
with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

Not Applicable. 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  

Honeywell management
maintains disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed
in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the specified time periods and accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer
and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There have been no changes
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Honeywell s internal control over financial
reporting that have occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016. 

Our management, with
the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) at December 31, 2016. Based on these evaluations, our CEO and CFO concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures required by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 were effective as of December
31, 2016. 

Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting   

Honeywell management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
to our management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 

Management assessed
the effectiveness of Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016. In making this assessment,
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework (2013) . 

Based on this assessment,
management determined that Honeywell maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016. 

The effectiveness of
Honeywell s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 has been audited by Deloitte   Touche
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data. 

Item 9B. Other Information  

Under the Iran Threat
Reduction and Syrian Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Honeywell is
required to disclose in its periodic reports if it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions
or dealings relating to Iran or with entities or individuals designated pursuant to certain Executive Orders. All of our activities
in Iran during the three months ended December 31, 2016, including the activities disclosed below, were conducted by our non-U.S.
subsidiaries under General License H and otherwise in compliance with all applicable laws, including sanctions regulations administered
by U.S. Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). 

In the three months
ended December 31, 2016, the UOP business, part of Performance Materials and Technologies, engaged in the following activities
related to Iran s oil, gas and/or petrochemical sectors: 

Settled
                                         outstanding claims with Iranian counterparties under contracts originally entered into
                                         in compliance with then-applicable sanctions laws. Revenue in the three months ended
                                         December 31, 2016 from these settlements was approximately $28.6 million.    

Delivered
                                         services to Iranian counterparties pursuant to new and existing contracts, which resulted
                                         in revenue of approximately $1.3 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016,
                                         (expected total value of these contracts is approximately $4.2 million).    

Sold
                                         non-U.S. origin products to non-U.S. third-parties for end-use in Iran pursuant to new
                                         and existing contracts, which resulted in revenue of approximately $0.1 million in the
                                         three months ended December 31, 2016 (expected total value of these contracts is approximately
                                         $0.9 million).   

In the three months
ended December 31, 2016, the Process Solutions business, part of Performance Materials and Technologies, sold approximately $1.7
million of non-U.S. origin products to distributors (including an Iranian distributor) for use in the gas distribution sector
in Iran. 

In the three months
ended December 31, 2016, the Industrial Safety business, part of Safety and Productivity Solutions, sold approximately $0.1 million
of non-U.S. origin products to a non-U.S. distributor for use in the oil sector in Iran. 

In addition to the activities
described above, we previously disclosed in our periodic reports activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran occurring
in the first, second and third quarters of 2016. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries intend to continue doing business in Iran under General
License H in compliance with all applicable laws, which sales may require additional disclosure pursuant to Section 13(r) of the
Act. 

PART III.  

Item 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Information relating
to the Directors of Honeywell, as well as information relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, will be contained in our definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of the Directors, which will be filed with
the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after December 31, 2016, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference. Certain other information relating to the Executive Officers of Honeywell appears in Part I of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K under the heading Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

The members of the Audit
Committee of our Board of Directors are: George Paz (Chair), Kevin Burke, D. Scott Davis, Linnet Deily, Judd Gregg and Robin L.
Washington. The Board has determined that Mr. Paz, Mr. Davis and Ms. Washington are audit committee financial experts as defined
by applicable SEC rules and that Mr. Paz, Mr. Burke, Mr. Davis, Ms. Deily and Ms. Washington satisfy the accounting or related
financial management expertise criteria established by the NYSE. All members of the Audit Committee are independent as that term
is defined in applicable SEC rules and NYSE listing standards. 

Honeywell s corporate
governance policies and procedures, including the Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the
Committees of the Board of Directors are available, free of charge, on our website under the heading Investor Relations (see Corporate
Governance), or by writing to Honeywell, 115 Tabor Road, Morris Plains, New Jersey 07950, c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary.
Honeywell s Code of Business Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees. Amendments to or waivers of the Code of Business Conduct granted to any
of Honeywell s directors or executive officers will be published on our website within five business days of such amendment
or waiver. 

Item 11. Executive Compensation  

Information relating
to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of
the Registrant, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

Information relating
to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters is contained in the Proxy Statement
referred to above in Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference. 

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS  

As of December 31, 2016
information about our equity compensation plans is as follows: 

(1)  Equity
                                         compensation plans approved by shareowners which are included in column (a) of the table
                                         are the 2016 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2006 Stock Incentive
                                         Plan (including 28,603,165 shares of Common Stock to be issued for options; 16,091 shares
                                         to be issued for stock appreciation rights; 4,443,936 RSUs subject to continued employment;
                                         and 1,884,115 deferred RSUs); and the 2016 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and
                                         the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (including 297,014 shares of Common Stock
                                         to be issued for options; and 23,407 RSUs subject to continued services). RSUs included
                                         in column (a) of the table represent the full number of RSUs awarded and outstanding
                                         whereas the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon vesting will be lower
                                         than what is reflected on the table because the value of shares required to meet employee
                                         tax withholding requirements are not issued.   

1,336,202 growth plan units were
issued and remain outstanding for the performance cycle commencing January 1, 2014 and ended December 31, 2015 and 1,600,359 growth
plan units were issued and remain outstanding for the performance cycle commencing January 1, 2016 and ending December 31, 2017,
both pursuant to the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. The value of this growth plan award will be paid in cash and, thus, growth plan
units are not included in the table above. 

Because the number of future shares
that may be distributed to employees participating in the Honeywell Global Stock Plan is unknown, no shares attributable to that
plan are included in column (a) of the table above. 

(2)  Column
                                         (b) relates to stock options and does not include any exercise price for RSUs because
                                         an RSU s value is dependent upon attainment of certain performance goals or continued
                                         employment or service and they are settled for shares of Common Stock on a one-for-one
                                         basis.   

(3)  The
                                         number of shares that may be issued under the 2016 Stock Incentive Plan as of December
                                         31, 2016 is 46,365,609 which includes the following additional shares that may again
                                         be available for issuance: shares that are settled for cash, expire, are canceled, or
                                         under similar prior plans, are tendered as option exercise price or tax withholding obligations,
                                         are reacquired with cash option exercise price or with monies attributable to any tax
                                         deduction enjoyed by Honeywell to the exercise of an option, or are under any outstanding
                                         awards assumed under any equity compensation plan of an entity acquired by Honeywell.
                                         No securities are available for future issuance under the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan or
                                         the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan.   

The number of shares that may
be issued under the Honeywell Global Stock Plan as of December 31, 2016 is 1,906,977. This plan is an umbrella plan for three
plans described below maintained solely for eligible employees of participating non-U.S. countries. 

The
                                         UK Sharebuilder Plan allows an eligible UK employee to invest taxable earnings in Common
                                         Stock. The Company matches those shares and dividends paid are used to purchase additional
                                         shares of Common Stock. For the year ending December 31, 2016, 58,353 shares were credited
                                         to participants  accounts under the UK Sharebuilder Plan.   

The
                                         Honeywell International Technologies Employees Share Ownership Plan (Ireland) and the
                                         Honeywell Measurex (Ireland) Limited Group Employee Profit Sharing Scheme, allow eligible
                                         employees in Ireland to contribute specified percentages of base pay, bonus or performance
                                         pay that are then invested in Common Stock. For the year ending December 31, 2016, 7,139
                                         shares of Common Stock were credited to participants  accounts under these two
                                         plans.   

The remaining 960,609 shares included
in column (c) are shares remaining under the 2016 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors .  

(4)  Equity
                                         compensation plans not approved by shareowners included in the table refers to the Supplemental
                                         Non-Qualified Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees.   

The Supplemental Non-Qualified
Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees is an unfunded, non-tax qualified plan that provides benefits equal to the employee
deferrals and company matching allocations that would have been provided under Honeywell s U.S. tax-qualified savings plan
if the Internal Revenue Code limitations on compensation and contributions did not apply. The Company matching contribution is
credited to participants  accounts in the form of notional shares of Common Stock. The notional shares are distributed in
the form of actual shares of Common Stock. The number of shares to be issued under this plan based on the value of the notional
shares as of December 31, 2016 is 438,998. 

The AlliedSignal Incentive Compensation
Plan for Executive Employees was a cash incentive compensation plan maintained by AlliedSignal Inc. This plan has expired. Employees
were permitted to defer receipt of a cash bonus payable under the plan and invest the deferred bonus in notional shares of Common
Stock. The notional shares are distributed in the form of actual shares of Common Stock. The number of shares of Common Stock
that remain to be issued as of December 31, 2016 is 8,741. 

(5)  Column
                                         (b) does not include any exercise price for notional shares allocated to employees under
                                         Honeywell s equity compensation plans not approved by shareowners because all of
                                         these shares are only settled for shares of Common Stock on a one-for-one basis.   

(6)  The
                                         amount of securities available for future issuance under the Supplemental Non-Qualified
                                         Savings Plan for Highly Compensated Employees is not determinable because the number
                                         of securities that may be issued under this plan depends upon the amount deferred to
                                         the plan by participants in future years.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

Information relating
to certain relationships and related transactions is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10. Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

Information relating to fees paid to and services performed
by Deloitte   Touche LLP and our Audit Committee s pre-approval policies and procedures with respect to non-audit services
are contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant, and such
information is incorporated herein by reference. 

PART IV.  

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
thereunto duly authorized. 

Honeywell International Inc.   

Date:  February 10, 2017  
      By:  
       /s/ Jennifer H. Mak      

Jennifer H. Mak   

Vice President and Controller   

(on behalf of the Registrant   

and as the Registrant s   

Principal Accounting Officer)   

Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the date indicated: 

Name  
         
      Name  

*  
       
      *  

David
    M. Cote  
       
      Judd
    Gregg  

Chairman
    of the Board and  
       
      Director  

Chief
    Executive Officer  

(Principal
    Executive Officer)  

*  
       
      *  

Darius
    Adamczyk  
       
      Clive
    Hollick  

President
    and Chief Operating Officer  
       
      Director  

and
    Director  

*  
       
      *  

William
    S. Ayer  
       
      Grace
    D. Lieblein  

Director  
       
      Director  

*  
       
      *  

Kevin
    Burke  
       
      George
    Paz  

Director  
       
      Director  

*  
       
      *  

Jaime
    Chico Pardo  
       
      Bradley
    T. Sheares, Ph.D.  

Director  
       
      Director  

*  
       
      *  

D.
    Scott Davis  
       
      Robin
    L. Washington  

Director  
       
      Director  

*  

Linnet
    F. Deily  

Director  

/s/
    Thomas A. Szlosek  
       
      /s/
    Jennifer H. Mak  

Thomas
    A. Szlosek  
       
      Jennifer
    H. Mak  

Senior
    Vice President and  
       
      Vice
    President and Controller  

Chief
    Financial Officer  
       
      (Principal
    Accounting Officer)  

(Principal
    Financial Officer)  

*By:  
      /s/
    Thomas A. Szlosek  

(Thomas
    A. Szlosek  

Attorney-in-fact)  

February
    10, 2017  

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit   
  No.   
       
       Description    
 
      10.47*  
       
      2016 Stock Incentive
    Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates Form of Stock Option Award Agreement (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.3 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016)   

10.48*  
       
      2016 Stock Incentive
    Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates Form of Growth Plan Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.4 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016)    

10.49*  
       
      2016 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Honeywell s Proxy Statement, dated March 10, 2016, filed
    pursuant to Rule 14a-6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)   

10.50*  
       
      2016 Stock Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. Form of Stock Option Award Agreement (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.5 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016)   

10.51*  
       
      2016 Stock Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc. Form of Restricted Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.6 to Honeywell s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016)   

10.52  
       
      Amended and Restated
    Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 10, 2015 among Honeywell International Inc., the banks, financial institutions
    and other institutional lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank International Limited,
    as swing line agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank
    Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
    as documentation agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and co-book
    managers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed July 10, 2015)   

10.53  
       
      Amendment No. 1,
    dated as of September 30, 2015, to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 10, 2015 among Honeywell
    International Inc., the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as
    administrative agent, Citibank International Limited, as swing line agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent,
    Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan
    Partners, LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as documentation agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P.
    Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s
    Form 8-K filed October 1, 2015)   

10.54  
       
      Amendment No. 2,
    dated as of April 29, 2016, to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 10, 2015, as amended
    by Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 30, 2015, among Honeywell International Inc., the banks, financial institutions and
    other institutional lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank International Limited, as swing
    line agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities
    Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as documentation
    agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Honeywell s Form 8-K filed April 29, 2016)   

Exhibit     
  No.   
       
       Description    
 
      10.55  
       
      364-Day Credit Agreement,
    dated as of April 29, 2016, among Honeywell International Inc., the banks, financial institutions and other institutional
    lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Bank of
    America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners,
    LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as documentation agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
    Bank, N.A., as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Honeywell s
    Form 8-K filed April 29, 2016)   

12  
       
      Statement re: Computation
    of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed herewith)   

21  
       
      Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant (filed herewith)   

23.1  
       
      Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP (filed herewith) 

23.2 
       
     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC (filed herewith)  

24  
       
      Powers of Attorney
    (filed herewith)   

31.1  
       
      Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant
        to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith) 

31.2  
       
      Certification of
    Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith)   

32.1  
       
      Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant
        to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith) 

32.2  
       
      Certification of
    Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002 (filed herewith)   

101.INS  
       
      XBRL Instance Document
    (filed herewith)   
 
      101.SCH  
       
      XBRL Taxonomy Extension
    Schema (filed herewith)   
 
      101.CAL  
       
      XBRL Taxonomy Extension
    Calculation Linkbase (filed herewith)   
 
      101.DEF  
       
      XBRL Taxonomy Extension
    Definition Linkbase (filed herewith)   
 
      101.LAB  
       
      XBRL Taxonomy Extension
    Label Linkbase (filed herewith)   
 
      101.PRE  
       
      XBRL Taxonomy Extension
    Presentation Linkbase (filed herewith)   

The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk (*) are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.   

<EX-10.43>
 3
 c86783_ex10-43.htm

Exhibit 10.43  

March 11, 2013 

Mr. Krishna P. Mikkilineni 

 Honeywell Tech Solutions Lab 

 151/1, Doraisanipalya, Bannerghatta Road 

 Bangalore, India 560076 

Dear Krishna, 

I am pleased to confirm our offer to you
as Senior Vice President, Engineering, Operations and Information Technology (Band 7), located in Morristown, New Jersey reporting
to David Cote, Chairman and CEO of Honeywell. In this position, you will be an Executive Officer of Honeywell for purposes of SEC
Section16 reporting. The effective date of your promotion will be determined by Dave Cote ( Effective Date ), subject
to the terms and conditions of this letter agreement ( Agreement ). 

In connection with your new role, you will
be entitled to the following compensation and benefits package, as previously approved by the Management Development and Compensation
Committee of the Company s Board of Directors: 

COMPENSATION   

Base Salary:  As of the Effective
Date, your annual base salary will be increased to $600,000. Base salary reviews occur annually (beginning in 2014) and adjustments
are based on your performance and other relevant factors. 

Annual Incentive Compensation:  As
of the Effective Date, your target incentive compensation opportunity will be increased to 75% of your annual cash base salary
earnings during the year. For 2013, your bonus will be determined by pro-rating your bonus based on your old target award percentage
of 65% and your new target percentage of 75%. 

Long-Term Incentive Awards : You
will be eligible for an annual stock option award with the size determined by the MDCC based on your performance and future career
potential with Honeywell. Stock options generally vest ratably over four years. In addition, as a recognized member of Honeywell s
leadership team, you will be eligible to receive Growth Plan Units under the Growth Plan. 

In addition to your eligibility for annual
long-term incentive awards, you will receive a special, one-time award of 20,000 stock options as a component of this offer. This
award will be granted under the terms of the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and Its Affiliates 

 (the  Stock Incentive Plan )
and the relevant award agreement. These stock options will vest ratably over four years. 

OTHER EXECUTIVE BENEFITS   

You will also be entitled to the following Executive Benefits: 

Vacation: You will be eligible for five
(5) weeks of vacation.   
 
         Excess Liability Insurance: Honeywell
will pay the annual premium for an Excess Liability Insurance policy that provides $10,000,000 of coverage per occurrence.   
 
         Executive Severance: Honeywell s
Senior Severance Plan currently provides for 36 months of base salary continuation and target bonus if your employment is involuntary
terminated for a reason other than Gross Cause (as defined in the severance plan document in effect when you terminate employment).
You will be required to execute a release of claims against Honeywell and its affiliates and related parties and you may be required
to agree to certain non-solicitation, non-disclosure and non-competition covenants as a condition of receiving executive severance
benefits. For additional information, please consult the actual plan document.    

REPATRIATION AND DOMESTIC RELOCATION   

A condition of the offer is that you agree
to relocate from Bangalore, India to the Unites States. As part of this move, you are eligible for repatriation and domestic relocation
benefits. You will be contacted by SIRVA (repatriation)   Brookfield (relocation) after you return your signed offer letter
to initiate the relocation process. 

In addition to the regular policy benefits,
you will also be provided with additional relocation benefits, as follows: 

Value     
 
     Additional Miscellaneous Relocation Allowance    
     $  30,000     

You will also be permitted to apply up
to 30-days of the leaving country temporary housing benefits provided under the repatriation policy to extend the 60-day temporary
housing benefit up to 90-days. 

All direct payments made to you under this
Repatriation and Domestic Relocation section of this Offer Letter shall be grossed up for tax purposes at the assumed tax rate
of 51%. 

Should you voluntarily leave Honeywell
within 24 months of your relocation to the United States, you will be obligated to repay to Honeywell, in cash and within 30 days
of your termination date, 100% of the costs associated with your relocation, including any tax gross ups. 

STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES FOR HONEYWELL OFFICERS   

As an Officer of the Corporation, you will
be required to hold four-times your annual base salary in Honeywell shares in accordance with the Corporation s Stock Ownership
Guidelines. The following table provides an overview of the Stock Ownership Guidelines. A copy of the Stock Ownership Guidelines
policy documents will be separately provided to you. 

Honeywell
    Shares Counted for Ownership Purposes: 
              Unvested
                                                                                                                                                                                 restricted
                                                                                                                                                                                 stock
                                                                                                                                                                                 units
                                                                                                                                                                                 (RSUs) 

         Deferred restricted stock
units 

         Shares in tax qualified and
non-qualified savings plans 

         Private holdings 

Ownership
    Threshold: 
             4X base salary  

Retention
    Requirements: 
              Indefinite
                                                                                                                                   holding
                                                                                                                                   requirement
                                                                                                                                   until
                                                                                                                                   ownership
                                                                                                                                   threshold
                                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                   met
                                                                                                                                   for
                                                                                                                                   net
                                                                                                                                   gain
                                                                                                                                   shares
                                                                                                                                   from
                                                                                                                                   RSU
                                                                                                                                   vesting,
                                                                                                                                   payment
                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                   deferred
                                                                                                                                   RSUs
                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                   all
                                                                                                                                   stock
                                                                                                                                   option
                                                                                                                                   exercises 

         One year for net
        gain shares from RSU vesting and all stock option exercises (Note: payment of deferred RSUs are exempt from the one year
        minimum hold requirement) 

Time
    Limit: 
              No
                                                                                                                                   time
                                                                                                                                   requirement
                                                                                                                                   to
                                                                                                                                   meet
                                                                                                                                   ownership
                                                                                                                                   threshold 

         Must meet threshold
        in order to sell stock 

Note that you currently satisfy the 4x multiple requirement
based on your outstanding restricted stock holdings. 

ACCEPTANCE OF OFFER   

As a condition of this employment offer,
you are required to execute, in the form attached hereto, Honeywell s  Employee Agreement Relating to Trade Secrets,
Proprietary and Confidential Information  ( IP Agreement ). This IP Agreement replaces, in its entirety, any
previous intellectual property agreement that you may have executed while an employee of Honeywell. 

In addition, your offer of employment with
Honeywell as described herein is contingent upon your signing and returning a copy of the  Honeywell International Inc. Noncompete
Agreement for Senior Executives  ( Noncompete Agreement ) before your start date. A copy of this Noncompete Agreement
is attached. 

Honeywell has a long and distinguished
history. But, more importantly, we are a company with a terrific future and a great place to work. Our performance culture drives
growth for us and competitive advantage for our customers. We hire the best people; give them every possible opportunity to learn,
grow, and develop; and reward them for their contributions. We offer career paths that span product lines, job types, businesses,
and countries. 

Krishna, we are excited to be extending
this offer to you and look forward to working with you in your expanded role. Your experience and background is an asset to our
Company. 

Finally, please print and sign this Agreement,
the IP Agreement and the Noncompete Agreement and return them to me as soon as possible. 

If you have any questions or need any further
information about our offer, please contact me directly. 

Congratulations, 

Mark James 

 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Communications 

 Honeywell International Inc. 

Read and Accepted: 

/s/ Krishna P. Mikkilineni 
       
     4/4/13 

KRISHNA P. MIKKILINENI 
       
     DATE 

All businesses experience changing conditions.
Accordingly, we reserve the right to change work assignments, reporting relationships and staffing levels to meet business needs,
and your employment with Honeywell will be on an  at will  basis. This means that there is no guarantee of employment
for any specific period, and either you or Honeywell may terminate your employment at any time. The descriptions of benefits and
perquisites described in this offer letter are for general information purposes only and are not intended to modify any plan document,
summary plan description ( SPD ) or prospectus. For a complete description of any benefit or perquisite, you may request
a copy of the applicable plan document, SPD or prospectus. The Company reserves the right to modify, amend or terminate any benefit
plan or perquisite in its sole and absolute discretion. 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  
Employee Agreement Relating to Trade Secrets, 
Proprietary and Confidential Information 

In consideration of my employment, continued employment, compensation,
and the equipment, materials, facilities and Honeywell  Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information  (as
hereinafter defined) supplied to me, I understand and agree that: 

1.    Records of Inventions.  I will
                                       keep complete and current written records of all Inventions I Make during the period of
                                       time I am employed by Honeywell and promptly disclose all such Inventions in writing to
                                       Honeywell for the purpose of adequately determining Honeywell s rights in each such
                                       Invention. I will supplement any such disclosures to the extent Honeywell may request that
                                       I do so. If I have any doubt as to whether or not to disclose an Invention to Honeywell,
                                       I will disclose it.   

2.    Disclosure of Inventions after
                                       Termination.  I will promptly and completely disclose in writing to Honeywell s
                                       Law Department all Inventions which I Make during the one year immediately following the
                                       end of my employment by Honeywell which relate either to my work assignment at Honeywell
                                       or to Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information for the
                                       purpose of determining Honeywell s rights in each such Invention before filing any
                                       application for patents on such Inventions. I will not file any patent application relating
                                       to any such Invention without the prior written consent of Honeywell s Law Department.
                                       If I do not prove that I Made the Invention entirely after leaving Honeywell s employment,
                                       the Invention is presumed to have been Made during the period of time I was employed by
                                       Honeywell. I acknowledge that the conditions of this paragraph are no greater than is necessary
                                       for protecting Honeywell s interests in Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary
                                       and Confidential Information and in Inventions to which it is rightfully entitled.   

3.    Ownership of Inventions.  Each
                                       and every Invention I Make during the period of time I am employed by Honeywell (a) which
                                       relates directly to the business of Honeywell or to Honeywell s actual or demonstrably
                                       anticipated research or development, or (b) which results from any work I perform for Honeywell
                                       is the sole and exclusive property of Honeywell, and I agree to assign and hereby assign
                                       my entire right, title and interest in each such Invention to Honeywell. Each Invention
                                       I Make during the period of time I am employed by Honeywell for which no equipment, supplies,
                                       facilities or Honeywell Trade Secrets, Proprietary or Confidential Information was used
                                       and which was developed entirely on my own time is my property, unless (a) the Invention
                                       relates directly to the business of Honeywell or to Honeywell s actual or demonstrably
                                       anticipated research or development, or (b) the Invention results from any work performed
                                       by me for Honeywell. If I assert any property right in an Invention I Make during the period
                                       of time I am employed by Honeywell, I will promptly notify Honeywell s Law Department
                                       in writing.   

4.    Cooperation with Honeywell.  I will
                                assist and fully cooperate with Honeywell in obtaining, maintaining, and asserting the fullest
                                measure of legal protection, which Honeywell elects to obtain, maintain or assert for Inventions
                                in which it has a property right. I will also assist and fully cooperate with Honeywell in defending
                                Honeywell against claims of violation of the intellectual property rights of others. I will be
                                paid my reasonable expenses in assisting, and cooperating with, Honeywell. I will execute any
                                lawful document Honeywell requests me to execute relating to obtaining, maintaining, or asserting
                                legal protection for any said Invention or in defending against claims of the violation of the
                                intellectual property rights of others (including, but not limited to, executing applications,
                                assignments, oaths, declarations, and affidavits) and I will make myself available for interviews,
                                depositions and testimony. In the event that Honeywell is unable, after reasonable effort, to
                                secure my signature on any document or documents needed to apply for or prosecute any patent,
                                copyright, or other right or protection relating to an Invention, for any other reason whatsoever,
                                I hereby irrevocably designate and appoint Honeywell and its duly authorized officers and agents    

as my agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on my behalf to execute and file any such application
                                or applications, and to do all other lawfully-permitted acts to further the prosecution and issuance
                                of patents, copyrights, or similar protections thereon with the same legal force and effect as
                                if executed by me.  

5.    Pre-employment Inventions. 
                                       On Schedule A, which is an integral part of this agreement, I have completely identified
                                       (without disclosing any trade secret, proprietary or other confidential information) every
                                       Invention I Made before my employment by Honeywell in which I have an ownership interest
                                       and which is not the subject matter of an issued patent or a printed publication at the
                                       time I sign this agreement. If I become aware of any projected or actual use of any such
                                       Invention by Honeywell, I will promptly notify Honeywell in writing of said use. Except
                                       as to the Inventions listed on Schedule A or those which are the subject matter of an issued
                                       patent or a printed publication at the time I sign this agreement, I will not assert any
                                       rights against Honeywell with respect to any Invention Made before my employment by Honeywell.   

6.    Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary
                                and Confidential Information.  I will never, directly or indirectly, during or after my employment
                                with Honeywell misappropriate, use or disclose Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and
                                Confidential Information except in furthering Honeywell s business nor will I disclose or
                                disseminate at any time Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information
                                to anyone who is not an officer, director, employee, attorney or authorized agent of Honeywell
                                without the prior written consent of Honeywell s Law Department unless the specific item
                                of Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information: (a) is now in, or
                                hereafter, (through no breach of this agreement) becomes general public knowledge, or (b) prior
                                to my disclosure, dissemination or use, was lawfully acquired by me without any obligation to
                                retain the information in confidence. In this connection, I will not publish any of Honeywell s
                                Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information for dissemination outside Honeywell or
                                file any patent application relating to any Invention I Make during the period of time I am employed
                                by Honeywell without the prior written approval of Honeywell s Law Department. I will execute
                                any agreement relating to the protection of Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential
                                Information or such information of any third party whose intellectual property Honeywell is under
                                a legal obligation to protect if Honeywell requests that I do so. I will not engage without the
                                prior written consent of Honeywell s Law Department, either during the period of time I
                                am employed by Honeywell or for a period of two years following my Termination of Employment for
                                any reason, in any activity or employment in the faithful performance of which it could be reasonably
                                anticipated that I would use or disclose Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential
                                Information. All documents and tangible things embodying or containing Honeywell s Trade
                                Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information are Honeywell s exclusive property. I
                                have access to them solely for performing the duties of my employment by Honeywell. I will protect
                                the confidentiality of their content and comply with all security policies and procedures, which
                                may, from time to time, be established by Honeywell. I will return all of them and all copies,
                                facsimiles and specimens of them and any other tangible forms of Honeywell s Trade Secrets,
                                Proprietary and Confidential Information in my possession, custody or control to Honeywell before
                                leaving the employment of Honeywell.                                                                                 

I understand that I have the right to use or practice any skill or
expertise generally associated with my employment but not special or unique to Honeywell, but that I do not have the right to use,
practice or disclose Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information for my own benefit or for the benefit
of any third party.  

7.    Trade Secrets, Proprietary or
                                       Confidential Information from Previous Employment.  I certify that I have not, and will
                                       not, disclose or use during my employment by Honeywell, any trade secrets, proprietary
                                       or confidential information which I acquired as a result of any previous employment or
                                       under a contractual obligation of confidentiality before my employment by Honeywell. I
                                       understand that Honeywell has no interest in and will not accept disclosure by me of any
                                       trade secrets, proprietary or confidential information,    

which belongs to a third party.
                                       If I am ever placed in a position where I will be required or am given an assignment that
                                       will require me to use, directly or indirectly, any trade secrets, proprietary or confidential
                                       information of any person, previous employer or any third party, I will promptly inform
                                       Honeywell s Law Department and my supervisor before I undertake any activity that
                                       would involve the use or disclosure of such information or present the appearance to any
                                       such third party that I have used or disclosed such information. If I fail to do so, Honeywell
                                       may elect not to indemnify me in the event of litigation and may take such other actions,
                                       as it deems appropriate, up to and including termination of my employment.  

8.    Prior Restrictive Obligation.
                                        On Schedule B, which is an integral part of this agreement, I have completely identified
                                       all prior obligations (written and oral), which restrict my ability to perform the duties
                                       of my employment by Honeywell, including all confidentiality agreements and covenants restricting
                                       future employment.   

9.    Nonsolicitation of Honeywell
                                       Employees.  I acknowledge that Honeywell has invested, and will continue to invest,
                                       significant time and money to recruit and retain its employees. Therefore, recognizing
                                       that in the course of my employment I have obtained valuable information about Honeywell
                                       employees, their respective talents and areas of expertise, I agree that, during my employment
                                       and for a period of two years following my Termination of Employment from Honeywell for
                                       any reason, I will not directly or indirectly, for my own account or for others, (i) solicit
                                       (or assist another in soliciting) for employment or for the performance of services, (ii)
                                       offer or cause to be offered employment or other service engagement, or (iii) participate
                                       in any manner in the employment or hiring for services of any current or former Honeywell
                                       employee with whom I had contact or of whom I became aware in my last two years of Honeywell
                                       employment, unless it has been more than 12 months since that individual left Honeywell.
                                       Nor will I, for my own account or for others, in any way induce or attempt to induce such
                                       individual to leave the employment of Honeywell.   

10.    Nonsolicitation of Honeywell
                                        Customers, Suppliers, Business Partners and Vendors.  I acknowledge that Honeywell
                                        has invested and will continue to invest significant time and money to develop valuable,
                                        continuing relationships with existing and prospective clients and customers of Honeywell.
                                        Therefore, recognizing that in the course of my employment I have obtained valuable information
                                        about Honeywell customers, suppliers, business partners, and/or vendors, and their requirements,
                                        I agree that during my employment and for a period of two years following my Termination
                                        of Employment from Honeywell for any reason, I will not directly or indirectly, for my
                                        own account or for others, solicit or assist others in soliciting or attempt to solicit
                                        (or assist others in attempting to solicit), (i) any existing clients, customers, suppliers,
                                        business partners, and/or vendors of Honeywell with whom I had contact, or of whom I became
                                        aware while employed by Honeywell during the two-year period prior to my Termination of
                                        Employment, or (ii) any prospective clients, customers, suppliers, business partners,
                                        and/or vendors of Honeywell with whom I had contact and with whom Honeywell took significant
                                        steps to do business during the two-year period prior to my Termination of Employment,
                                        for the purpose of inducing such existing or prospective clients, customers, suppliers,
                                        business partners, and/or vendors to cease doing business or reduce their business with
                                        Honeywell or to purchase, lease or utilize products or services that are competitive with,
                                        similar to, or that may be used as substitutes for any products or services offered by
                                        Honeywell.   

11.    Notice to Future Employers.
                                         For the period of two years immediately following the end of my employment by Honeywell,
                                        I will inform each new employer, prior to accepting employment, of the existence of this
                                        agreement and provide that employer with a copy of it. Honeywell has the right to inform
                                        any future employer of the existence of this agreement and to provide any future employers
                                        with a copy of it.   

12.    Copyright.  As to all works
                                        prepared by me which are: (i) within the scope of my employment, or (ii) based upon information
                                        I acquired from Honeywell which is not normally made available to the public, or (iii)
                                        commissioned by Honeywell, but not within my scope of employment, I hereby agree to:   

(a)  Submit to Honeywell s Law Department and to my supervisor for approval for publication or oral dissemination;   

(b)  Assign all right, title and interest in and to the copyright in all such works to Honeywell; and   

(c)  Waive any claim of moral rights, author s rights, droit moral, or any equivalent rights
to the extent necessary or permitted by law.   

I hereby release and allow Honeywell to use, for any lawful purpose, any voice reproduction,
photograph, or other video likeness of me made in the course of my employment.  

13.    Acknowledgement of Receipt.
                                         I acknowledge that I have received a copy of this agreement prior to accepting employment,
                                        continued employment or other consideration as recited herein and that execution of this
                                        agreement was an express condition of my employment, continued employment or receipt of
                                        other consideration recited herein.   

14.    Effectiveness of Agreement.  I acknowledge
                                 that the provisions of this agreement are in addition to, and in no way intended to limit, restrict
                                 or narrow any prior or existing agreement with Honeywell. This agreement does not replace or
                                 supersede any prior or existing employment or other agreement with Honeywell, but rather, shall
                                 be read in conjunction with such prior or existing agreements and shall be interpreted in a manner
                                 to provide Honeywell the maximum protection and the most effective and complete assignment of
                                 inventions provided by all agreements I have with Honeywell. The terms of this agreement are
                                 to be read consistent with the terms of any other intellectual property, trade secret or confidentiality
                                 agreements that I have executed with Honeywell; provided, however, to the extent there is a conflict
                                 between/among such agreements, such agreements shall be read in concert and construed as providing
                                 the broadest possible protections to Honeywell, even if such construction would require provisions
                                 of more than one such agreement to be given effect. This agreement shall be deemed effective
                                 as of the first day of my employment by Honeywell and shall continue throughout the entire period
                                 of time I am employed by Honeywell and my obligations will continue after, and survive, the end
                                 of my employment by Honeywell.   

15.    Identity of Future Employer.  Upon termination
                                        of my employment for any reason, if reasonably requested by Honeywell, I shall advise
                                        Honeywell of the name and address of my intended future employer.   

16.    Remedies.  I acknowledge
                                        that a remedy at law for any breach or threatened breach of the provisions of this Agreement
                                        would be inadequate and therefore agree that Honeywell shall be entitled to injunctive
                                        relief in case of any such breach or threatened breach. In the event that a court determines
                                        that I have breached or threatened to breach this agreement, I agree to reimburse Honeywell
                                        for all attorneys  fees and costs incurred in enforcing the terms of the agreement.
                                        However, nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting Honeywell from pursuing
                                        any other remedies available for any such breach or threatened breach against me or my
                                        then-current employer which may also include but not be limited to contract damages, lost
                                        profits and punitive damages.   

17.    Successors; Binding Agreement.
                                         This agreement binds my heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives and
                                        assigns and inures to the benefit of Honeywell and its successors and assigns. Only a
                                        written amendment executed by both Honeywell and me can modify this agreement.   

18.    Governing Law.  This agreement shall be governed
                                        by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey without regard
                                        to its principles of conflicts of law.   

19.    Validity.  It is the desire
                                        and intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this agreement shall be enforced
                                        to the fullest extent legally-permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision(s)
                                        of this agreement    

shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, the court may modify
                                        or sever such provision(s), such modification or deletion to apply only with respect to
                                        the operation of such provision(s) in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication
                                        is made. In addition, if any one or more of the provisions contained in this agreement
                                        shall for any reason be held to be excessively broad as to duration, geographical scope,
                                        activity or subject, it shall be construed by limiting and reducing it, so as to be enforceable
                                        to the extent compatible with the applicable law as it shall then appear. The remaining
                                        provisions of this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  

20.    Definitions   

(a)   Honeywell  collectively identifies Honeywell International
Inc. (a Delaware corporation having a place of business at Columbia Road and Park Avenue, Morris Township, Morris County, New Jersey),
its predecessors, designees and successors and its past, present and future operating companies, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates
and other business units, including businesses acquired by purchase of stock, merger or otherwise.   

(b)   Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information  means
information which is not generally known in the industry in which Honeywell is engaged, which may be disclosed to me or which I
may learn, observe, discover or otherwise acquire during, or as a result of, my employment by Honeywell and which includes, without
limitation, any information, whether patentable, patented or not, relating to any existing or contemplated products, inventions,
services, technology, ideas, concepts, designs, patterns, processes, compounds, formulae, programs, devices, tools, compilations
of information, methods, techniques, and including information relating to any research, development, manufacture, purchasing,
engineering, know-how, business plans, sales or market methods, methods of doing business, customer lists, customer usages or requirements,
or supplier information, which is owned or licensed by Honeywell or held by Honeywell in confidence.   

(c)   Invention  includes not only inventions (whether or not patentable),
but also innovations, improvements, discoveries, ideas and all other forms of intellectual property (including, but not limited
to, copyright works and mask works)   whether or not any of the foregoing constitutes trade secret or other confidential
information.   

(d)   Make  or  Made  when used in relation to Invention
includes any one or any combination of (i) conception, (ii) reduction to practice, or (iii) development of an Invention and is
without regard to whether I am a sole or joint inventor.   

(e)   Termination of Employment  shall be defined as any separation
from employment with Honeywell regardless of the reason, including any and all voluntary and involuntary reasons for termination.
The termination date for purposes of this Agreement shall be the last day I actively perform services for Honeywell.   

21.    Headings Descriptive.  The
                                        headings of the several paragraphs of this agreement are inserted for convenience only
                                        and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of this agreement.  

/s/ Krishna Mikkilineni 
       
     4/4/13 

KRISHNA MIKKILINENI 
       
     DATE 

SCHEDULE A  

HAVE YOU MADE ANY INVENTIONS BEFORE THE TERM OF YOUR EMPLOYMENT
WITH HONEYWELL, IN WHICH YOU HAVE AN OWNERSHIP INTEREST AND WHICH ARE NOT THE SUBJECT MATTER OF ISSUED PATENTS OR PRINTED PUBLICATIONS? 

(If there are none, please enter the word  NONE ) 

NOTE: Please describe each such Invention without disclosing trade secrets,
proprietary or confidential information. 

[Attach additional sheets if more space is needed.] 

SCHEDULE B  

DO YOU HAVE ANY PRIOR OBLIGATIONS (WRITTEN OR ORAL) WHICH WOULD RESTRICT
YOUR ABILITY TO PERFORM THE DUTIES OF YOUR EMPLOYMENT WITH HONEYWELL? 

(If there are none, please enter the word  NONE ) 

NOTE: Please give date of, and parties to, obligations and the nature and substance of the restriction. 

[Attach additional sheets if more space is needed.] 

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL  

  NONCOMPETE AGREEMENT FOR SENIOR  

  EXECUTIVES  

In consideration of my transfer, promotion,
or hire into my role as a Senior Executive of the company, my employment, continued employment, compensation and the equipment,
materials, facilities and the Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information supplied to me, I agree to the following: 

1. Noncompetition.  I acknowledge that in the
course of my employment with or provision of services to Honeywell, I have and will become familiar with Trade Secrets,
Proprietary and Confidential Information concerning Honeywell, its businesses and employees, including but not limited to,
Honeywell s business methods, business systems, strategic plans, plans for acquisition or disposition of products,
expansion plans, financial status and plans, financial data, customer lists and data, and personnel information. I understand
and agree that as part of my continued employment with Honeywell, I will continue to have access to and receive Trade
Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information concerning Honeywell. I further acknowledge that Honeywell operates in a
very competitive business environment and my services are and will be of special, unique and extraordinary value to
Honeywell. I further acknowledge that I have been given and will continue to be given access to, and develop relationships
with, customers of Honeywell at the time and expense of Honeywell and have and will continue to receive training, experience
and expertise from Honeywell that make my services of special, unique and extraordinary value to Honeywell. I further
acknowledge and agree that I will not, directly or indirectly, at any time during or after my employment with Honeywell,
except in the course of performing my duties at Honeywell, disclose, disseminate, make available or use Honeywell s
Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information. 

I agree that, during
my employment and for a period of two (2) years following my Termination of Employment with Honeywell for any reason, I will not
become employed by, perform services for, or otherwise become associated with (as an employee, officer, director, principal, agent,
manager, partner, co-partner or consultant or any other individual or representative role) a Competing Business (as defined below).
This restriction shall apply to any Competing Business that conducts business in the same or substantially similar geographic area
in which any Honeywell business, for which I was employed or performed services in a job covered by this Program during the Look
Back Period, conducts business or plans to conduct business as of my Termination of Employment. I acknowledge (i) that Honeywell s
business is conducted throughout the United States and around the world, (ii) notwithstanding the state of incorporation or principal
office of Honeywell, it is expected that Honeywell will have business activities and have valuable business relationships within
its industry throughout the United States and around the world, and (iii) as part of my responsibilities, I may be conducting business
throughout the United States and around the world in furtherance of Honeywell s business and its relationships. 

A  Competing Business 
shall mean any business, person, entity or group of business entities, regardless of whether organized as a corporation, partnership
(general or limited), joint venture, association or other organization, that (i) conducts or is planning to conduct a business 

similar to and/or in competition with any
business conducted or planned by any Honeywell business for which I (A) was employed or performed services in a job covered by
this Program, or (B) had knowledge of operations over the Look Back Period, or (ii) designs, develops, produces, offers for sale
or sells a product or service that can be used as a substitute for, or is generally intended to satisfy the same customer needs
for, any one or more products or services designed, developed, manufactured, produced or offered for sale or sold by any Honeywell
business for which I (X) was employed or performed services in a job covered by this Program, or (Y) had knowledge of operations
during the Look Back Period. I acknowledge that I will be deemed to have knowledge of a business if I received, was in possession
of or otherwise had access to Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information regarding such business. For purposes of
illustration only, I acknowledge and understand that each of the corporations or entities (and any related entities, subsidiaries,
affiliates or successors) set forth on the Addendum attached hereto is a Competing Business as of the date hereof. I further acknowledge
and agree that the Addendum attached hereto is not an exhaustive list and is not intended to include all of Honeywell s current
or future competitors, which I acknowledge may include other persons or entities in the future. I further acknowledge and understand
that if I have any questions about whether any prior Honeywell position which I have held over the last two years is subject to
this Program and shall be used to identify Competing Businesses, I should contact my Human Resource representative. 

Honeywell recognizes
that some businesses, persons, entities, or group of businesses that are Competing Businesses as defined above may also have lines
of business or parts of their business that do not compete with Honeywell as defined above, and the restrictions contained herein
are not intended to include such lines of business or parts of their businesses. I understand and agree that if I intend to become
employed by, perform services for, or otherwise become associated with (as an employee, officer, director, principal, agent, manager,
partner, co-partner or consultant or any other individual or representative role) a Competing Business as defined above, it is
presumed that the restriction contained herein applies. I further understand and agree that if I do not believe the restriction
contained herein should apply, I must demonstrate to Honeywell that I will only be employed by, perform services for, or otherwise
become associated with (as an employee, officer, director, principal, agent, manager, partner, co-partner or consultant or any
other individual or representative role) a line of business in, or part of, a Competing Business that does not compete with Honeywell
as defined above. 

2. Reasonableness of Restrictions and Validity. 
I agree that the terms of this Agreement are reasonable and do not impose a greater restraint than necessary to protect
Honeywell s legitimate protectable business interests, including the protection of its Trade Secrets, Proprietary and
Confidential Information. It is the desire and intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement shall be
enforced to the fullest extent legally-permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision(s) of this Agreement shall be
adjudicated to be overbroad, invalid or unenforceable, the court may modify or sever such provision(s), such modification or
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of such provision(s) in the particular jurisdiction in which such
adjudication is made. In addition, if any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be
held to be excessively broad as to duration, geographical scope, activity or subject, it shall be construed by limiting and
reducing it so as to be enforceable to the extent compatible with the applicable law as it shall then appear. The remaining
provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. I also agree that the parties shall request that a court
of competent jurisdiction not invalidate or ignore the terms of this Agreement, but instead honor this provision by
reforming 

or modifying any overbroad or otherwise invalid terms to the
extent necessary to render the terms valid and enforceable and then enforcing the Agreement as so reformed or modified. 

3. Remedies.  I acknowledge
that a remedy at law for any breach or threatened breach of the provisions of this Agreement would be inadequate and
therefore agree that Honeywell shall be entitled to injunctive relief in case of any such breach or threatened breach. I
acknowledge and agree Honeywell may apply to any court of law or equity of competent jurisdiction for specific performance
and/or injunctive relief (without posting a bond or other security) in order to enforce or prevent any violation of the
provisions of this Agreement, and that money damages would not be an adequate remedy for any breach of the provisions of this
Agreement. I acknowledge and agree that a violation of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to Honeywell, and I
covenant that I will not assert in any proceeding that a violation or further violation of this Agreement: (i) will not
result in irreparable harm to Honeywell; or (ii) could be remedied adequately at law. Honeywell s right to
injunctive relief shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedies available at law or equity. In the event that a
court determines that I have breached or threatened to breach this Agreement, I agree to reimburse Honeywell for all
attorneys  fees and costs incurred in enforcing the terms of this Agreement. However, nothing contained herein shall be
construed as prohibiting Honeywell from pursuing any other remedies available for any such breach or threatened breach
against me or my new employer, which may also include, but not be limited to, contract damages, lost profits and punitive
damages. 

4. Harm and Injunctive Relief.  I
agree and acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Agreement do not preclude me from earning a livelihood, nor do
they unreasonably impose limitations on my ability to earn a living. I further agree and acknowledge that the potential harm
to Honeywell of the non-enforcement of this Agreement outweighs any potential harm to me from its enforcement by injunction
or otherwise. I acknowledge that I have carefully read this Agreement and have given careful consideration to the restraints
imposed upon me by this Agreement, and am in full accord as to their necessity for the reasonable and proper protection of
Honeywell s legitimate protectable business interests, including the protection of its Trade Secrets, Proprietary and
Confidential Information. I agree and acknowledge that I have been provided adequate and reasonable consideration in exchange
for the obligations under this Agreement, including employment or continued employment by Honeywell, goodwill, access or
continued access to Honeywell s Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information, access or continued access to
customers, and additional good and valuable consideration. I expressly acknowledge and agree that each and every restraint
imposed by this Agreement is reasonable with respect to subject matter, duration and geographical scope. 

5. Binding Agreement, Amendment,
Successors.  I acknowledge that the provisions of this Agreement are in addition to, and in no way intended to limit,
restrict or narrow any prior or existing employment or other agreement with Honeywell. This Agreement does not replace or
supersede any prior or existing employment or other agreement with Honeywell, but rather, shall be read in conjunction with
such prior or existing agreements and shall be interpreted in a manner to provide Honeywell the maximum protection provided
by all agreements I have with Honeywell. The terms of the restriction in Paragraph 1 and the other terms in this Agreement
are to be read consistent with the terms of any other noncompete or other agreements that I have executed with Honeywell;
provided, however, to the extent there is a conflict between/among such agreements, such agreements shall be construed as
providing the broadest possible protections to Honeywell, even if such construction would require provisions of more than one
such agreement to be given effect. No waiver of this Agreement will be effective unless it is in writing and signed by
Honeywell 

International s Senior Vice President for Human Resources and
Communications or his/her designee. This Agreement may not be superseded or amended by any other agreement between myself and Honeywell
unless such agreement specifically and expressly states that it is intended to supersede this Agreement and is executed by Honeywell
International s Senior Vice President for Human Resources and Communications or his/her designee. This Agreement binds my
heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives and assigns and inures to the benefit of Honeywell and its successors and
assigns. 

6. Acknowledgement of Receipt.  I acknowledge that I received a copy of this Agreement prior to accepting my transfer,
promotion, or hire into my new role and that execution of this Agreement was an express condition of such transfer,
promotion, or hire. 

7. Effectiveness of Agreement.  This Agreement becomes effective when I sign it, the obligations under it continue throughout
the entire period of time I am employed by Honeywell, without regard to the business within Honeywell with which I am
associated and these obligations will continue after, and survive, the end of my employment with Honeywell. 

8. Notice to
Future Employers.  For the period of two (2) years immediately following the end of my employment with Honeywell, I will inform
each new employer, prior to accepting employment, of the existence of this Agreement and provide that employer with a copy of it.
Honeywell has the right to inform any future employer of the existence of this Agreement and to provide any future employers with
a copy of it. 

9. Governing Law
and Venue.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey
without regard to its principles of conflicts of law. I hereby consent to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the federal
and state courts of the State of New Jersey, Morris County, for the resolution of all disputes arising under, or relating to,
this Agreement. 

10. Additional Definitions.  

Honeywell 
collectively identifies Honeywell International Inc. (a Delaware corporation having a place of business at Columbia Road and Park
Avenue, Morris Township, Morris County, New Jersey), its predecessors, designees and successors and its past, present and future
operating companies, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates and other business units, including businesses acquired by purchase of
assets, stock, merger or otherwise. 

Look Back Period  means the
two (2) year period ending on the date of my Termination of Employment. 

Program 
refers to the noncompete initiative implemented by Honeywell requiring that employees occupying certain jobs in Salary Bands 5
  7 (Senior Executives) execute this noncompete Agreement. 

Trade Secrets,
Proprietary and Confidential Information  means information which is not generally known in the industry in which Honeywell
International is engaged, which may be disclosed to me or which I may learn, observe, discover or otherwise acquire during, or
as a result 

of, my employment by Honeywell and which
includes, without limitation, any information, whether patentable, patented or not, relating to any existing or contemplated products,
inventions, services, technology, ideas, concepts, designs, patterns, processes, compounds, formulae, programs, devices, tools,
compilations of information, methods, techniques, and including information relating to any research, development, manufacture,
purchasing, engineering, know-how, business plans, sales or market methods, methods of doing business, business systems, strategic
plans, plans for acquisition or disposition of products, expansion plans, financial status and plans, financial data, personnel
information, customer lists or data, customer usages or requirements, or supplier information, which is owned or licensed by Honeywell
International or held by Honeywell International in confidence. 

Termination of
Employment  means any separation from employment with Honeywell regardless of the reason, including any and all voluntary
and involuntary reasons for termination. The termination date for purposes of this Agreement shall be the last day I actively perform
services for Honeywell. 

11. Headings.  The headings of the paragraphs of
this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of this
Agreement. 

I have carefully read this Agreement. I
understand and accept its terms. I understand and agree that I will continue to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement after
my employment with Honeywell has ended. 

KRISHNA MIKKILINENI    
 
     Signature:   /s/ Krishna Mikkilineni  
     Honeywell Executive Name  

Date: 4/4/13 

ADDENDUM TO 
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC. 
NONCOMPETE AGREEMENT FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES  

Krishna Mikkilineni 
EMPLOYED AS Senior Vice President, Engineering, 
Operations and Information Technology  

Pursuant to Paragraph
1 of your Honeywell International Inc. Noncompete Agreement for Senior Executives ( Noncompete Agreement ), this Addendum
contains a list, for illustration purposes only, of specific competitors that are considered a  Competing Business, 
as that term is used in your Noncompete Agreement, and are therefore covered by the restrictions contained in Paragraph 1 of your
Noncompete Agreement. This list is not an exhaustive list and is not intended to include all of Honeywell s, or your specific
business  or unit s, current or future competitors, which you acknowledge in Paragraph 1 of your Noncompete Agreement
may include other persons or entities now or in the future. 

Based on your current role and responsibilities
with Honeywell as Senior Vice President ,  Engineering, Operations and Information Technology, the following companies are
considered key competitors for your job, and therefore, fall within the definition of a Competing Business as that term is used
in your Noncompete Agreement: 

General Electric, United Technologies,
Rockwell Collins, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Garmin, Thales, Williams, Emerson, Invensys, Johnson Controls, Schneider Electric,
Siemens, Yamatake, Ingersoll Rand, Rockwell Automation, Bosch, Mine Safety Appliances, 3M, Tyco, ABB, Yokogawa, Philips, Intermec
Technologies, Motorola Solutions (Symbol), Arkema, Axens, BASF, DSM, Dupont, Shell/Criterion, Albermarle, Sinopec, Chevron Lummus
Global, Solvay Fluor, Celanese, Borg-Warner, Holset, IHI, MHI, Bosch-Mahle JV, SchaefflerContinental, Voight, APB, Cummins, Behr,
Modine, Valeo, Advics, Akebono, Continental, Federal-Mogul, ITT Corp., JBI, Nisshinbo, TMD Friction, TRW, Saxid, Affina, Centric  

As previously noted, this is not an exhaustive
list and there may be other current and future persons or entities that would meet the definition of a Competing Business, as set
forth in your Noncompete Agreement. In addition, pursuant to Paragraph 1 of your Noncompete Agreement, please note that the term
Competing Business, as defined in your Noncompete Agreement, will include competitors of any Honeywell business in which you have
worked in a job subject to the Program (as defined in your Noncompete Agreement) during the Look Back Period (as defined in your
Noncompete Agreement). Accordingly, if you worked in multiple Honeywell businesses in covered positions during your tenure, it
is very likely that the list of Competing Businesses subject to restriction under the terms of your Noncompete Agreement will be
broader than the above illustrative list. If you have questions about whether any prior Honeywell position which you have held
during the Look Back Period subjects you to similar restrictions, and will be used to identify Competing Business(es), you should
contact your Human Resource representative. 

</EX-10.43>

<EX-12>
 5
 c86783_ex12.htm

EXHIBIT 12  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO
OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  

  (Dollars in millions)  

(1)  
      Denotes the equivalent of an appropriate portion of rentals representative of the interest factor on all rentals other than for capitalized leases.   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 c86783_ex21.htm

EXHIBIT 21  

HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.  

  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT  

Name  
         
      Country
    or State 
    of Incorporation  
         
      Percent 
    Ownership   

AlliedSignal Aerospace Service Corporation  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      COM DEV Ltd.  
       
      Canada  
       
      100%   
 
      Elster GmbH  
       
      Germany  
       
      100%   
 
      Elster s.r.o.  
       
      Slovakia  
       
      100%   
 
      Grimes Aerospace Company  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      Hand Held Products, Inc.  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Aerospace de M xico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
       
      Mexico  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Automation India Limited  
       
      India  
       
      75%   
 
      Honeywell Automotive Parts Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  
       
      China  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Aerospace Avionics Malaysia Sdn Bhd  
       
      Malaysia  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Aerospace UK  
       
      United Kingdom  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell (China) Co., Ltd.  
       
      China  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Co., Ltd.  
       
      Korea  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Control Systems Limited  
       
      United Kingdom  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Deutschland Holding GmbH  
       
      Germany  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Electronic Materials, Inc.  
       
      Washington  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Europe NV  
       
      Belgium  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Finance LP  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Holdings Pty. Ltd.  
       
      Australia  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell International S rl  
       
      Switzerland  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell International Services SRL  
       
      Romania  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Japan Inc.  
       
      Japan  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Korea Ltd.  
       
      Korea  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Limited  
       
      Australia  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Limited / Honeywell Limit e  
       
      Canada  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Safety Products USA, Inc.  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Specialty Chemicals Seelze GmbH  
       
      Germany  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Technologies S rl  
       
      Switzerland  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell Technology Solutions Lab Pvt. Ltd.  
       
      India  
       
      100%   
 
      Honeywell UK Limited  
       
      United Kingdom  
       
      100%   
 
      Intelligrated Systems, LLC  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      Intermec Technologies Corporation  
       
      Washington  
       
      100%   
 
      Life Safety Distribution AG  
       
      Switzerland  
       
      100%   
 
      Novar ED S Limited  
       
      United Kingdom  
       
      100%   
 
      UOP LLC  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   
 
      UOP Russell LLC  
       
      Delaware  
       
      100%   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 c86783_ex23-1.htm

EXHIBIT 23.1  

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference
in Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 033-55425, 333-22355, 333-101455, and 333-208501), Form S-8 (No. 033-58347, 333-49280,
333-136083, 333-136086, 333-146932, 333-148995, 333-175260, 333-195331, 333-210889, and 333-210899), and Form S-4 (No. 333-82049)
of our report dated February 10, 2017, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Honeywell International Inc. and subsidiaries
(the  Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting (which report
expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to Company changing its method of accounting for
employee-shared based payments in 2016 and 2015), appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2016. 

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Parsippany, New Jersey 
February 10, 2017 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 8
 c86783_ex23-2.htm

EXHIBIT 23.2  

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM  

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference
in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No.033-55425, 333-22355, 333-101455 and 333-208501), Form S-8 (No. 033-58347, 333-49280,
333-136083, 333-136086, 333-146932, 333-148995, 333-175260, 333-195331, 333-210889 and 333-210899) and Form S-4 (No. 333-82049)
of Honeywell International Inc. of our report dated February 13, 2015, except for the change in composition of reportable segments
discussed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, as to which the date is February 10, 2017, relating to the financial
statements which appears in this Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Florham Park, New Jersey 

 February 10, 2017 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-24>
 9
 c86783_ex24.htm

POWER OF ATTORNEY   

Each of the undersigned, as a director of
Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints Darius Adamczyk, Katherine L.
Adams, Jennifer H. Mak, Jeffrey N. Neuman, Thomas A. Szlosek and John J. Tus, each with power to act without the other and with
power of substitution and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact and agent for me and in my name, place and stead in any and all
capacities, 

(i) to sign the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for the year ended December 31, 2016, 

(ii) to sign any amendment to the Annual Report referred to in (i) above, and 

(iii) to file the documents described in (i) and (ii) above and all exhibits thereto and any and
all other documents in connection therewith,  

granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent full power
and authority to do and perform every act and thing requisite, necessary or desirable to be done in connection therewith, as fully
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, or any of them, or their or his or her substitutes or substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 

This Power of Attorney may be signed in any
number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon
the same instrument. 

/s/ Darius Adamczk  
       
      /s/ Judd Gregg   
 
      Darius Adamczyk, Director  
       
      Judd Gregg, Director   

/s/ William S. Ayer  
       
      /s/ Clive R. Hollick   
 
      William S. Ayer, Director  
       
      Clive R. Hollick, Director   

/s/ Kevin Burke  
       
      /s/ Grace Lieblein   
 
      Kevin Burke, Director  
       
      Grace Lieblein, Director   

/s/ Jaime Chico Pardo  
       
      /s/ George Paz   
 
      Jaime Chico Pardo, Director  
       
      George Paz, Director   

/s/ David M. Cote  
       
      /s/ Bradley T. Sheares   
 
      David M. Cote, Director  
       
      Bradley T. Sheares, Director   

/s/ D. Scott Davis  
       
      /s/ Robin Washington   
 
      D. Scott Davis, Director  
       
      Robin Washington, Director   

/s/ Linnet F. Deily  

Linnet F. Deily, Director  

Dated: December 9, 2016 

POWER OF ATTORNEY   

Each of the undersigned, as a director of
Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints Darius Adamczyk, Katherine L.
Adams, Jennifer H. Mak, Jeffrey N. Neuman, Thomas A. Szlosek and John J. Tus, each with power to act without the other and with
power of substitution and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the Company
one or more registration statements on Form S-8 or any other appropriate form during fiscal year 2017 and to file the same together
with all exhibits thereto, under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment or supplement thereto or to any registration
statement heretofore filed by the Company on Form S 8 or any other appropriate form for the registration of shares of the Company's
Common Stock (or participations where appropriate) to be offered pursuant to the Honeywell Savings and Ownership Plan, the Honeywell
Puerto Rico Savings and Ownership Plan, the Honeywell Supplemental Savings Plan, the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors
of Honeywell International Inc., the 2007 Honeywell Global Employee Stock Plan (including any and all sub-plans), the 2011 Stock
Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates, the 2016 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell
International Inc., and the 2016 Stock Incentive Plan of Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates and any plan which is
a successor to such plans or is a validly authorized new plan pursuant to which securities of the Company are issued to employees
or non-employee directors. 

I hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact
full power and authority to perform every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I might do in person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause
to be done. 

I hereby revoke any or all prior appointments
of attorneys in fact to sign the above-described documents. 

This Power of Attorney may be signed
in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto
were upon the same instrument. 

/s/ Darius Adamczk  
       
      /s/ Judd Gregg   
 
      Darius Adamczyk, Director  
       
      Judd Gregg, Director   

/s/ William S. Ayer  
       
      /s/ Clive R. Hollick   
 
      William S. Ayer, Director  
       
      Clive R. Hollick, Director   

/s/ Kevin Burke  
       
      /s/ Grace Lieblein   
 
      Kevin Burke, Director  
       
      Grace Lieblein, Director   

/s/ Jaime Chico Pardo  
       
      /s/ George Paz   
 
      Jaime Chico Pardo, Director  
       
      George Paz, Director   

/s/ David M. Cote  
       
      /s/ Bradley T. Sheares   
 
      David M. Cote, Director  
       
      Bradley T. Sheares, Director   

/s/ D. Scott Davis  
       
      /s/ Robin Washington   
 
      D. Scott Davis, Director  
       
      Robin Washington, Director   

/s/ Linnet F. Deily  

Linnet F. Deily, Director  

Dated: December 9, 2016 

POWER OF ATTORNEY   

Each of the undersigned, as a director of
Honeywell International Inc. (the  Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby appoints Darius Adamczyk, Katherine L.
Adams, Jennifer H. Mak, Jeffrey N. Neuman, Thomas A. Szlosek and John J. Tus, each with power to act without the other and with
power of substitution and resubstitution, as my attorney-in-fact to sign on my behalf in my capacity as a director of the Company
one or more registration statements on Form S-3 or S-4 or any other appropriate form during fiscal year 2017, and to file the same
together with all exhibits thereto, under the Securities Act of 1933, including any amendment or supplement thereto or to any registration
statement heretofore filed by the Company for the registration of sales or resales of: 

(i) shares of the Company s common
stock, par value, $1.00 per share, including shares of common stock to be offered under the Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase
Plan of the Company and any successor or new plan for such purposes; 

(ii) shares of the Company s preferred
stock, without par value; 

(iii) debt securities of the Company,
with such terms as may be from time to time specified in such registration statement or any amendment, post-effective amendment
or supplement thereto; and 

(iv) such other securities of the Company,
its subsidiaries, joint ventures or affiliates or any other person or entity, as may be specified in any such registration statement,
amendment or supplement thereto, all in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules and regulations thereunder. 

I hereby grant to each such attorney-in-fact
full power and authority to perform every act necessary to be done in connection with the foregoing as fully as I might do in person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact, or any of them or their substitutes, may lawfully do or cause
to be done. 

I hereby revoke any or all prior appointments
of attorneys-in-fact to the extent that they confer authority to sign the above-described documents. 

This Power of Attorney may be signed in any
number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon
the same instrument. 

/s/ Darius Adamczk  
       
      /s/ Judd Gregg   
 
      Darius Adamczyk, Director  
       
      Judd Gregg, Director   

/s/ William S. Ayer  
       
      /s/ Clive R. Hollick   
 
      William S. Ayer, Director  
       
      Clive R. Hollick, Director   

/s/ Kevin Burke  
       
      /s/ Grace Lieblein   
 
      Kevin Burke, Director  
       
      Grace Lieblein, Director   

/s/ Jaime Chico Pardo  
       
      /s/ George Paz   
 
      Jaime Chico Pardo, Director  
       
      George Paz, Director   

/s/ David M. Cote  
       
      /s/ Bradley T. Sheares   
 
      David M. Cote, Director  
       
      Bradley T. Sheares, Director   

/s/ D. Scott Davis  
       
      /s/ Robin Washington   
 
      D. Scott Davis, Director  
       
      Robin Washington, Director   

/s/ Linnet F. Deily  

Linnet F. Deily, Director  

Dated: December 9, 2016 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 c86783_ex31-1.htm

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 302  

  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, David M. Cote, Chief Executive Officer, certify that: 

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Honeywell International Inc.;   

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

a)  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures
to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

b)  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

c)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented
in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and   

d)  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting;   

5.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control
over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial information; and   

b)  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:  February 10, 2017  
      By:  
       /s/
    David M. Cote   

David M. Cote  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 c86783_ex31-2.htm

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 302  

  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Thomas A. Szlosek, Chief Financial Officer, certify that: 

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Honeywell International Inc.;   

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

a)  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures
to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

b)  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

c)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented
in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and   

d)  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting;   

5.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a.  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control
over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial information; and   

b.  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:  February 10, 2017  
      By:  
       /s/
    Thomas A. Szlosek   

Thomas A. Szlosek  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 c86783_ex32-1.htm

EXHIBIT 32.1  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report of Honeywell
International Inc. (the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2016 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, David M. Cote, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934; and   

(2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date:  February 10, 2017  
      By:  
       /s/
    David M. Cote   

David M. Cote  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 c86783_ex32-2.htm

EXHIBIT 32.2  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Annual Report of Honeywell
International Inc. (the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2016 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Thomas A. Szlosek, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934; and   

(2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date:  February 10, 2017  
      By:  
       /s/
    Thomas A. Szlosek   

Thomas A. Szlosek  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 hon-20161231.xml

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 hon-20161231.xsd

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 hon-20161231_cal.xml

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 hon-20161231_def.xml

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 hon-20161231_lab.xml

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 hon-20161231_pre.xml

</EX-101.PRE>

