<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_753308_0000753308-09-000025_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6402227</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>567426</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9988</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4464563</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>99</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000753308-09-000025.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090226191504
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000753308-09-000025
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000037634
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				590247775
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	002-27612
		FILM NUMBER:		09639306

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 UNIVERSE BLVD
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5616943715

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 14000
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FPL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000753308
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				592449419
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08841
		FILM NUMBER:		09639305

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 UNIVERSE BLVD
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5616946311

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 14000
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ClA9/GrKV5kl+zpumbVB/FO2F+3inzSRecgYc0dOVDcwwF3sfh7AIIcfvjdq7zpD
 Ov7fyB+dCJCIbgG45nZjoA==

 0000753308-09-000025.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 form10k123108.htm
 2008 FORM 10-K

form10k123108.htm 

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington,
D.C. 20549 

FORM
10-K 

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 

      OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended   December 31,
2008  

State or other
jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:       Florida 

Name
      of exchange 

                on
      which registered 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

                   FPL Group,
      Inc.:    Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value 

                   Florida Power   Light
      Company:     None  

New
      York Stock Exchange 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrants are well-known seasoned issuers, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933. 

FPL Group,
      Inc.    Yes        No                                                    Florida
      Power   Light Company    Yes        No     

Indicate
by check mark if the registrants are not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

FPL Group,
      Inc.    Yes        No                                                    Florida
      Power   Light Company    Yes        No     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months, and (2) have been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. 

FPL Group,
      Inc.    Yes        No                                                    Florida
      Power   Light Company    Yes        No     

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrants' knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrants are a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of "large accelerated filer,"
"accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

FPL
      Group, Inc. 

Large
      Accelerated Filer     

Accelerated
      Filer     

Non-Accelerated
      Filer     

Smaller
      Reporting Company     

Florida Power   Light
      Company 

Large
      Accelerated Filer     

Accelerated
      Filer     

Non-Accelerated Filer     

Smaller Reporting Company     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrants are shell companies (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).  Yes       No      

Aggregate
market value of the voting and non-voting common equity of FPL Group, Inc. held
by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2008 (based on the closing market price on the
Composite Tape on June 30, 2008) was $26,714,502,227. 

There
was no voting or non-voting common equity of Florida Power   Light Company
held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2008. 

The
number of shares outstanding of FPL Group, Inc. common stock, as of the latest
practicable date: Common Stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding at January 31,
2009: 408,946,823 shares. 

As of
January 31, 2009, there were issued and outstanding 1,000 shares of Florida
Power   Light Company common stock, without par value, all of which were
held, beneficially and of record, by FPL Group, Inc. 

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions
of FPL Group, Inc.'s Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof. 

________________________________________ 

This
combined Form 10-K represents separate filings by FPL Group, Inc. and Florida
Power   Light Company.  Information contained herein relating to
an individual registrant is filed by that registrant on its own
behalf.  Florida Power   Light Company makes no representations as
to the information relating to FPL Group, Inc.'s other operations. 

Florida
Power   Light Company meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction
I.(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing this Form with the reduced
disclosure format. 

DEFINITIONS 

Acronyms
and defined terms used in the text include the following: 

Term  

Meaning  

AFUDC 

allowance
      for funds used during construction 

AFUDC
       - 
      equity 

equity
      component of allowance for funds used during
  construction 

BART 

Best
      Available Retrofit Technology 

capacity
      clause 

capacity
      cost recovery clause, as established by the FPSC 

charter 

restated
      articles of incorporation, as amended, of FPL Group or FPL, as the case
      may be 

CO 2  

carbon
      dioxide 

DOE 

U.S.
      Department of Energy 

Duane
      Arnold 

Duane
      Arnold Energy Center 

EMF 

electric
      and magnetic field(s) 

EMT 

Energy
      Marketing   Trading 

environmental
      clause 

environmental
      compliance cost recovery clause, as established by the
  FPSC 

EPA 

U.S.
      Environmental Protection Agency 

ERCOT 

Electric
      Reliability Council of Texas 

Exchange
      Act 

Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 

FAS 

Statement
      of Financial Accounting Standards No. 

FASB 

Financial
      Accounting Standards Board 

FDEP 

Florida
      Department of Environmental Protection 

FERC 

Federal
      Energy Regulatory Commission 

FGT 

Florida
      Gas Transmission Company 

FIN 

FASB
      Interpretation No. 

FMPA 

Florida
      Municipal Power Agency 

FPL 

Florida
      Power   Light Company 

FPL
      FiberNet 

FPL
      FiberNet, LLC 

FPL
      Group 

FPL
      Group, Inc. 

FPL
      Group Capital 

FPL
      Group Capital Inc 

FPSC 

Florida
      Public Service Commission 

fuel
      clause 

fuel
      and purchased power cost recovery clause, as established by the
      FPSC 

Gulfstream 

Gulfstream
      Natural Gas System, L.L.C. 

Holding
      Company Act 

Public
      Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 

IRS 

Internal
      Revenue Service 

kv 

kilovolt(s) 

kwh 

kilowatt-hour(s) 

LIBOR 

London
      InterBank Offered Rate 

LTIP 

FPL
      Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive
  Plan 

Management's
      Discussion 

Item
      7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
      Results of Operations 

mortgage 

mortgage
      and deed of trust dated as of January 1, 1944, from FPL to Deutsche Bank
      Trust Company Americas, as supplemented and amended 

mw 

megawatt(s) 

NEPOOL 

New
      England Power Pool 

NextEra
      Energy Resources 

NextEra
      Energy Resources, LLC, formerly known as FPL Energy,
LLC 

Note
      ___ 

note
      ___ to consolidated financial statements 

NOx 

nitrogen
      oxide 

NRC 

U.S.
      Nuclear Regulatory Commission 

Nuclear
      Waste Policy Act 

Nuclear
      Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended 

O M
      expenses 

other
      operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of
      income 

PJM 

PJM
      Interconnection, L.L.C. 

PMI 

FPL
      Energy Power Marketing, LLC 

Point
      Beach 

Point
      Beach Nuclear Power Plant 

PTCs 

production
      tax credits 

PURPA 

Public
      Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended 

qualifying
      facilities 

non-utility
      power production facilities meeting the requirements of a qualifying
      facility under the PURPA 

RFP 

request
      for proposal 

ROE 

return
      on common equity 

Seabrook 

Seabrook
      Station 

SEC 

U.S.
      Securities and Exchange Commission 

SEGS 

Solar
      Electric Generating System 

SO 2  

sulfur
      dioxide 

VIE 

variable
      interest entity 

FPL
Group, FPL, FPL Group Capital and NextEra Energy Resources each have
subsidiaries and affiliates with names that include FPL, NextEra Energy
Resources, FPL Energy, FPLE and similar references.  For convenience
and simplicity, in this report the terms FPL Group, FPL, FPL Group Capital and
NextEra Energy Resources are sometimes used as abbreviated references to
specific subsidiaries, affiliates or groups of subsidiaries or
affiliates.  The precise meaning depends on the context. 

2 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

Page
      No. 

Definitions 

2 

Forward-Looking
      Statements 

3 

PART
      I 

Item
      1. 

Business 

4 

Item
      1A. 

Risk
      Factors 

19 

Item
      1B. 

Unresolved
      Staff Comments 

22 

Item
      2. 

Properties 

23 

Item
      3. 

Legal
      Proceedings 

26 

Item
      4. 

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

26 

PART
      II 

Item
      5. 

Market
      for Registrants' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities 

26 

Item
      6. 

Selected
      Financial Data 

27 

Item
      7. 

Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations 

27 

Item
      7A. 

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

50 

Item
      8. 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

51 

Item
      9. 

Changes
      in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure 

101 

Item
      9A. 

Controls
      and Procedures 

101 

Item
      9B. 

Other
      Information 

101 

PART
      III 

Item
      10. 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

101 

Item
      11. 

Executive
      Compensation 

101 

Item
      12. 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
      Stockholder Matters 

101 

Item
      13. 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

102 

Item
      14. 

Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services 

102 

PART
      IV 

Item
      15. 

Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules 

103 

Signatures 

110 

FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS 

This
report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Any statements that
express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives,
assumptions, future events or performance, climate change strategy or growth
strategies (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as
will, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, aim,
believe, could, should, would, estimated, may, plan, potential, projection,
target, outlook, predict and intend or words of similar meaning) are not
statements of historical facts and may be
forward-looking.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates,
assumptions and uncertainties.  Accordingly, any such statements are
qualified in their entirety by reference to important factors included in Part
I, Item 1A.  Risk Factors (in addition to any assumptions and other
factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking
statements) that could have a significant impact on FPL Group's and/or FPL's
operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Group's and/or FPL's
actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in
forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and/or FPL in this
combined Form 10-K, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response
to questions or otherwise. 

Any
forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is
made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any
forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including
unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless
otherwise required by law.  New factors emerge from time to time and
it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it
assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any
factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially
from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 

3 

PART
I 

Item
1.  Business 

FPL
GROUP 

FPL
Group was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida.  FPL Group
has two principal operating subsidiaries, FPL and NextEra Energy Resources
(formerly known as FPL Energy, LLC).  FPL is a rate-regulated utility
engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of
electric energy.  NextEra Energy Resources is FPL Group's competitive
energy subsidiary which produces the majority of its electricity from clean and
renewable fuels.  FPL Group Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL
Group, holds the capital stock of, or has equity interests in, FPL Group's
operating subsidiaries, other than FPL, and provides funding for those
subsidiaries, including NextEra Energy Resources.   At
December 31, 2008, FPL Group and its subsidiaries employed approximately
15,300 people.  For a discussion of FPL's and NextEra Energy
Resources' businesses, see FPL Operations and NextEra Energy Resources
Operations.  For financial information regarding FPL Group's business
segments, see Note 16. 

In
February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act)
was signed into law.  It includes approximately $787 billion in tax
incentives and new spending, a portion of which relates to renewable energy,
energy efficiency and energy reliability.  The Recovery Act includes,
among other things, provisions that allow companies building wind facilities the
option to choose between three investment cost recovery mechanisms: (i) PTCs
which were extended for wind facilities through 2012, (ii) investment tax
credits of 30% of the cost for qualifying wind facilities placed in service
prior to 2013, or (iii) an election to receive a cash grant of 30% of the cost
of qualifying wind facilities placed in service in 2009 or 2010, or if
construction began prior to December 31, 2010 and the wind facility is
placed in service prior to 2013.  An election to receive a cash grant
of 30%, in lieu of the 30% investment tax credit allowable under present law,
also applies to the cost of qualifying solar facilities placed in service in
either 2009 or 2010, or if construction began prior to December 31, 2010
and the solar facility is placed in service prior to 2017.  In
addition, 50% bonus depreciation was extended on most types of property placed
in service in 2009, and certain property placed in service in
2010.  FPL Group and FPL are in the process of evaluating the effect
of the Recovery Act on their businesses. 

Website Access to
SEC Filings.   FPL Group and FPL make their SEC filings,
including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free
of charge on FPL Group's internet website,  www.fplgroup.com , as
soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or
furnished to the SEC.  Information on FPL Group's website (or any of
its subsidiaries' websites) is not incorporated by reference in this annual
report on Form 10-K.  The SEC maintains an internet website at  www.sec.gov  that
contains reports, proxy and other information about FPL Group and FPL filed
electronically with the SEC. 

FPL
OPERATIONS 

General.   FPL
was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of FPL Group.  FPL supplies electric service to a
population of more than 8.7 million throughout most of the east and lower west
coasts of Florida.  During 2008, FPL served approximately 4.5 million
customer accounts.  The percentage of FPL's operating revenues by
customer class was as follows: 

Over the
last ten years, FPL's average annual customer growth has been
2.1%.  However, beginning in 2007, FPL has experienced a slowdown in
retail customer growth and a decline in non-weather related usage per retail
customer.  Retail customer growth in 2008 was 0.3%, although during
the fourth quarter of 2008 FPL experienced a decline in customer accounts of
0.2%.  FPL believes that the economic slowdown, the downturn in the
housing market and the credit crisis that have affected the country and the
state of Florida have contributed to the slowdown in customer growth and to the
decline in non-weather related usage per retail customer.  In 2008,
FPL experienced an increase in inactive accounts (accounts with installed meters
without corresponding customer names) and in low-usage customers (customers
using less than 200 kwh per month), which have contributed to the decline in
retail customer growth and non-weather related usage per retail
customer. 

4 

Regulation.   FPL's
retail operations provided approximately 99% of FPL's 2008 operating
revenues.  Retail operations are regulated by the FPSC, which has
jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities,
planning, siting and construction of facilities and other
matters.  FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC with respect
to certain aspects of its operations, including, but not limited to, the
acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services
and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy.  In addition,
FPL's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the
NRC.  NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the
construction, operation and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these
plants to continuing review and regulation. 

Retail
Ratemaking.   The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to
set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from
customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing
service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested
capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking
mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery
clauses. 

In
general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and
certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to
recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility
system.  These basic costs include O M expenses, depreciation and
taxes, as well as a return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in
providing electric service (rate base).  At the time base rates are
determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates FPL's estimated
weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt
and, typically, an allowed ROE.  The FPSC monitors FPL's actual
regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with
the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that an allowed ROE
will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or
through negotiations, which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of
FPL, the FPSC, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel or a substantially
affected party. 

Base Rates   -  In 2005, the FPSC approved
a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding FPL's retail base rates (2005
rate agreement), signed by FPL and all of the interveners in its 2005 base rate
proceeding.  FPL expects the 2005 rate agreement to be in effect
through December 31, 2009; thereafter, it shall remain in effect until
terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective pursuant to an
FPSC order. 

The 2005
rate agreement provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term
of the agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any
power plant approved pursuant to the Florida Power Plant Siting Act (Siting Act)
that achieves commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate
agreement.  Retail base rates increased on May 1, 2007 when a
1,144 mw natural gas-fired plant at FPL's Turkey Point site (Turkey Point Unit
No. 5) was placed in service.  As approved by the FPSC, FPL's retail
base revenues will increase in 2009 when two natural gas-fired combined-cycle
units (West County Energy Center Units Nos. 1 and 2), each with
approximately 1,220 mw of net generating capacity, are placed in service, which
is expected to occur by the third quarter of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2009,
respectively (see Fossil Operations below).  The 2005 rate agreement
also has a revenue sharing mechanism, whereby revenues from retail base
operations in excess of certain thresholds will be shared with customers on the
basis of two-thirds refunded to customers and one-third retained by
FPL.  Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second,
higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100% to customers.  The
revenue sharing threshold and cap are established by increasing the prior year's
threshold and cap by the sum of the following:  (i) the average annual
growth rate in retail kwh sales for the ten-year period ending December 31
of the preceding year multiplied by the prior year's retail base rate revenue
sharing threshold and cap and (ii) the amount of any incremental base rate
increases for power plants approved pursuant to the Siting Act that achieve
commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate agreement.  The
revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2009 are estimated to be $4,534 million
and $4,713 million, respectively.  For the year ended
December 31, 2008, revenues from retail base operations did not exceed the
2008 thresholds. 

Under
the terms of the 2005 rate agreement: (i) FPL's electric property depreciation
rates are based upon the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the
FPSC in March 2005; however, FPL may reduce depreciation by up to $125 million
annually, (ii) FPL has the ability to recover prudently incurred storm
restoration costs, either through securitization provisions pursuant to the
Florida Statutes or through surcharges, and (iii) FPL will be allowed to recover
through a cost recovery clause prudently incurred incremental costs associated
with complying with an FPSC or FERC order regarding a regional transmission
organization. 

FPL does
not have an authorized regulatory ROE under the 2005 rate agreement for the
purpose of addressing earnings levels.  For all other regulatory
purposes, FPL has an ROE of 11.75%.  Under the 2005 rate agreement,
the revenue sharing mechanism described above is the appropriate and exclusive
mechanism to address earnings levels.  However, if FPL's regulatory
ROE, as reported to the FPSC in FPL's monthly earnings surveillance report,
falls below 10% during the term of the 2005 rate agreement, FPL may petition the
FPSC to amend its base rates. 

In
November 2008, FPL notified the FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate
proceeding in March 2009.  In the notification, FPL stated that it
expects to request an $800 million to $950 million annual increase in base rates
beginning on January 1, 2010 and an additional annual base rate increase
beginning on January 1, 2011.  These amounts exclude the effects
of depreciation, which depend in part on the results of a detailed depreciation
study that FPL is currently finalizing.  Further, FPL expects to
request that the FPSC continue to allow FPL to use the mechanism for recovery of
the revenue requirements of any new power plant approved pursuant to the Siting
Act that was established in FPL's 2005 rate agreement.  Hearings on
the base rate proceeding are expected during the third quarter of 2009 and a
final decision is expected by the end of 2009.  The final decision may
approve rates that are different from those that FPL will request. 

5 

Cost Recovery
Clauses   - 
Fuel costs are recovered from customers through levelized charges per kwh
established under the fuel clause.  These charges are calculated
annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer usage for the
following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of
actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel adjustment
charges for prior periods.  An adjustment to the levelized charges may
be approved during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on
actual costs and usage.  In 2008, approximately $6.1 billion of costs
were recovered through the fuel clause.  FPL uses a risk management
fuel procurement program which was approved by the FPSC at the program's
inception.  The FPSC reviews the program activities and results for
prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel
costs.  The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by
locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements.  See
Energy Marketing and Trading, Management's Discussion   Results of Operations,
Note 1   Regulation and Note 3. 

Capacity
payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are
recovered from customers through the capacity clause and base
rates.  In 2008, approximately $517 million of these costs were
recovered through the capacity clause.  Beginning in 2009, FPL will
recover pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to the pretax AFUDC
rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity
clause.  Once the new capacity goes into service, construction costs
will be recovered through base rate increases.  See Nuclear Operations
below. 

Costs
associated with implementing energy conservation programs totaled approximately
$182 million in 2008 and were recovered from customers through the energy
conservation cost recovery clause.  Costs of complying with federal,
state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 are recovered
through the environmental clause to the extent not included in base
rates.  In 2008, approximately $40 million of these costs were
recovered through the environmental clause.  Beginning in 2009, FPL
will recover costs associated with its proposed solar generating facilities
through the environmental clause.  See Solar Operations
below. 

Other Recovery
Mechanisms   -  FPL maintains a
funded storm and property insurance reserve.  Four hurricanes in 2005
and three hurricanes in 2004 caused major damage in parts of FPL's service
territory.  Storm restoration costs incurred by FPL during 2005 and
2004 exceeded the amount in the storm and property insurance reserve, resulting
in a storm reserve deficiency.  In 2007, FPL formed a wholly-owned
bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary for the purpose of issuing
storm-recovery bonds, pursuant to the securitization provisions of the Florida
Statutes and an FPSC financing order.  In May 2007, the FPL subsidiary
issued $652 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured bonds
(storm-recovery bonds), primarily for the after-tax equivalent of the total of
FPL's unrecovered balance of the 2004 storm restoration costs, the 2005 storm
restoration costs and approximately $200 million to reestablish FPL's storm and
property insurance reserve.  The storm-recovery bonds, including
interest and bond issuance costs, are being repaid through a surcharge to retail
customers.  Prior to the issuance of these storm-recovery bonds, FPL
had been recovering the 2004 storm restoration costs from retail customers
through a storm damage surcharge.  See Management's Discussion  
Results of Operations   FPL and Note 9   FPL. 

In 2007,
the FPSC denied FPL's need petition for two ultra super critical pulverized coal
generating units in Glades County, Florida.  In December 2008, the
FPSC approved the recovery of approximately $34 million of pre-construction
costs associated with these units over a five-year period beginning January
2010. 

The FPSC
has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or
imprudently incurred.  Such costs may include, among others, fuel and
O M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units
are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the
construction or acquisition of new facilities. 

Competition.   FPL
currently holds 176 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various
municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through
2039.  Of the 176 franchise agreements, three expire in 2009, 14
expire in 2010 and 159 expire during the period 2011 through
2039.  Negotiations are ongoing to renew franchises with upcoming
expirations.  FPL also provides service to 13 other municipalities and
to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise
agreements.  FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the
conduct of its business. 

FPL
currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to
wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for
other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  The FERC has
jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale
transactions.  In 2008, operating revenues from wholesale and
industrial customers combined represented less than 4% of FPL's total operating
revenues.  Various states, other than Florida, have enacted
legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow
retail customers to choose their electricity supplier.  Management
believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the
retail electric industry in Florida in the near future.  If the basis
of regulation for some or all of FPL's business changes from cost-based
regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off
unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or
refund.  Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation
assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to
assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  See
Management's Discussion   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
Regulatory Accounting. 

6 

The FPSC
promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity
by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue an
RFP.  The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to
bid to supply the new generating capacity.  If a bidder has the most
cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and
demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating
generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility
would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and
request that the FPSC approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if
appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the
bidder's generating capacity.  In 2007, the FPSC eliminated the
requirement for utilities to issue an RFP for new nuclear power plants sited
after June 2006.  See Nuclear Operations below regarding the approval
by the FPSC for two additional nuclear units. 

Environmental.   FPL
is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the
emerging issues included in the Environmental Matters section
below.  FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause
for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and
regulations. 

During
2008, FPL spent approximately $181 million on capital additions to comply with
existing environmental laws and regulations.  FPL's capital
expenditures to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations are
estimated to be $1.2 billion for 2009 through 2011, including approximately $632
million in 2009, and are included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in
Capital Expenditures below.  These amounts include the capital
expenditures associated with three solar generating facilities currently under
construction.  See Solar Operations below. 

System Capability
and Load.   At December 31, 2008, FPL's resources for
serving load consisted of 24,997 mw, of which 22,087 mw were from FPL-owned
facilities (see Item 2  -  Generating Facilities) and
2,910 mw were available through purchased power contracts (see Note 15  
Contracts).  FPL's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2009 is
approximately 28%.  This reserve margin is expected to be achieved
through the combination of output from FPL's active generating units, purchased
power contracts and the capability to reduce peak demand through the
implementation of load management, which was estimated to be capable of reducing
demand by 1,734 mw at December 31, 2008.  Occasionally, unusually
cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in
electricity usage for short periods of time.  However, customer usage
and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely
due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPL's service
territory.  The highest peak load FPL has served to date was 22,361
mw, which occurred on August 17, 2005.  FPL had adequate
resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer
demand.  See Fossil Operations, Nuclear Operations and Solar
Operations below regarding additional capacity currently under
construction. 

Fuel
Mix.   FPL's generating plants use a variety of
fuels.  The diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable
FPL to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more economical fuel
mix.  See Fossil Operations, Nuclear Operations and Item 2  
Generating Facilities. 

FPL's
2008 fuel mix based on kwh produced was as follows: 

Fossil
Operations.   FPL owns and operates 83 units that use fossil
fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and has a joint-ownership interest in
three coal units.  FPL's fossil units are out of service from time to
time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced
demand.  FPL is currently constructing three natural gas-fired
combined-cycle units of approximately 1,220 mw each at its West County Energy
Center, which units are expected to be placed in service by the third quarter of
2009, fourth quarter of 2009 and mid-2011.  The estimated total cost
(including AFUDC) of the two units expected to be placed into service in 2009 is
approximately $1.3 billion and the estimated total cost (including AFUDC) of the
third unit is approximately $900 million.  In 2008, the FPSC approved
FPL's plan to modernize its Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants to
high-efficiency natural gas-fired units.  Each modernized plant is
expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of capacity and be placed into
service by 2013 and 2014 at an estimated total cost (including AFUDC) of $1.1
billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.  Approval by the Florida Power
Plant Siting Board (Siting Board), comprised of the Florida governor and
cabinet, is pending and is expected in early 2010.  The construction
costs of the three new units and power plant modernizations (through early 2010)
yet to be incurred as of December 31, 2008 are included in estimated
capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures below.  See
Note 15   Commitments. 

7 

FPL has
four firm transportation contracts in place with FGT, two firm transportation
contracts with Gulfstream and one firm transportation contract with Southeast
Supply Header, LLC, that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of
the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing
units.  The four existing FGT contracts expire between 2021 and 2025,
while both Gulfstream contracts expire in 2032.  The Southeast Supply
Header contract expires in 2020.  To the extent desirable, FPL can
also purchase interruptible natural gas transportation service from FGT and
Gulfstream based on pipeline availability.  FPL has several short- and
medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPL's
anticipated needs for natural gas.  The remainder of FPL's natural gas
requirements is purchased under other contracts and in the spot
market.  FPL has a long-term agreement for the storage of natural gas
that expires in 2013.  In addition, FPL has entered into several
long-term agreements for storage capacity and transportation of natural gas from
facilities that have not yet started construction, or if started, have not yet
completed construction.  These agreements range from 15 to 25 years in
length and contain firm commitments by FPL totaling up to approximately $209
million annually or $5.1 billion over the terms of the
agreements.  These firm commitments are contingent upon the occurrence
of certain events, including approval by the FERC and/or completion of
construction of the facilities from June 2009 to 2011.  See
Note 15  - 
Contracts.  FPL's oil requirements are obtained under short-term
contracts and in the spot market. 

FPL has,
through its joint ownership interest in St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units
Nos. 1 and 2, a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2009 fuel
needs and a portion of the 2010 and 2011 fuel needs for those
units.  All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the
coal supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of annual
and long-term contracts.  FPL's remaining fuel requirements for these
units will be obtained in the spot market.  See Note 15  
Contracts. 

Nuclear
Operations.   FPL owns, or has undivided interests in, and
operates four nuclear units, two at Turkey Point and two at St. Lucie, with a
total net generating capability of 2,939 mw.  The nuclear units are
periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and
maintenance outages, repairs and certain other
modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require
the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days.  The
following table summarizes certain information related to FPL's nuclear
units: 

FPL is
in the process of adding approximately 400 mw of baseload capacity at its
existing nuclear units at St. Lucie and Turkey Point, which additional capacity
is projected to be placed in service by the end of 2012 at an estimated total
cost (including carrying charges) of approximately $1.6 billion.  The
construction costs relating to the 400 mw of baseload capacity yet to be
incurred as of December 31, 2008 are included in estimated capital
expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures below.  In 2008, the
FPSC approved FPL's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its Turkey
Point site with projected in-service dates between 2018 and 2020, which units
are expected in the aggregate to add between 2,200 mw and 3,040 mw of baseload
capacity.  Additional approvals from other regulatory agencies will be
required later in the process.  See Note 15  
Commitments. 

During
2003, nuclear utilities other than FPL identified pressurizer heater sleeves
made with a particular material (alloy 600) that were experiencing penetration
cracks and leaks as a result of primary water stress corrosion
cracking.  As a result, in 2004, the NRC issued a bulletin requesting
utilities to identify and inspect all alloy 600 and weld materials in all
pressurizer locations and connected steam space piping.  Due to the
amount of time and cost associated with correcting potential leaks, FPL replaced
St. Lucie Unit No. 1's pressurizer during its fall 2005
outage.  FPL began the modification of St. Lucie Unit No. 1's
non-pressurizer penetrations that have alloy 600 weld materials during its fall
2008 outage and expects to complete the modifications by 2010.  The
St. Lucie Unit No. 2 pressurizer has 30 heater sleeves as compared to 120
heater sleeves in the St. Lucie Unit No. 1 pressurizer.  Accordingly,
FPL has decided to modify rather than replace St. Lucie Unit No. 2's alloy 600
pressurizer heater sleeves during its fall 2010 outage.  During St.
Lucie Unit No. 2's scheduled refueling outage in the fall of 2007, FPL inspected
the pressurizer heater sleeves and began modifications of other pressurizer and
non-pressurizer penetrations that have alloy 600 weld materials.  The
modifications to St. Lucie Unit No. 2's other penetrations are scheduled to be
completed by 2010.  The estimated cost of modifications for the St.
Lucie units is included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in Capital
Expenditures below.  See Note 15   Commitments.  All
pressurizer penetrations and welds at Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 use a
different material. 

8 

FPL
leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.  See
Note 1   Nuclear Fuel.  FPL Group and FPL consolidate the lessor
entity in accordance with FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,"
as revised (FIN 46(R)).  See Note 9   FPL.  The
contracts for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of FPL's
nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from 2009 through
2022.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE is responsible for
the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and
high-level radioactive waste.  As required by the Nuclear Waste Policy
Act, FPL is a party to contracts with the DOE to provide for disposal of spent
nuclear fuel from its Turkey Point and St. Lucie nuclear units.  The
DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to
and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by
January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from
nuclear power plants.  Through December 2008, FPL has paid
approximately $607 million in such fees to the DOE's nuclear waste
fund.  The DOE did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of
spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act.  In 1997, a
federal appeals court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, state
governments and utility commissions, that the DOE could not assert a claim that
its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by utilities seeking
money damages arising out of the DOE's failure to perform its
obligations.  In 1998, FPL filed a lawsuit against the DOE seeking
damages caused by the DOE's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from FPL's
nuclear power plants.  The matter is pending.  In October
2006, a federal claims court ruled in another utility's case that the 1997 court
decision regarding the DOE's unavoidable delay defense was not binding on that
federal court.  An appeal is pending in that case.  The DOE
filed a license application for a permanent disposal facility for spent nuclear
fuel with the NRC in June 2008, and a licensing proceeding is ongoing before the
NRC.  However, it is uncertain when a permanent disposal facility will
be constructed and when it would be ready to begin receiving spent nuclear fuel
shipments. 

FPL uses
both on site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel
generated by St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2, which should allow FPL to
store all spent nuclear fuel generated by these units through license
expiration.  FPL currently stores all spent nuclear fuel generated by
Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 in on site storage pools.  These
spent nuclear fuel storage pools do not have sufficient storage capacity for the
life of the respective units.  Beginning in 2011, FPL plans to begin
using dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel at the Turkey Point
facility.  Costs for the dry storage casks yet to be incurred are
included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures
below. 

The
NRC's regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and
decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant
operation.  FPL's current plans, under the operating licenses, provide
for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with
decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033,
respectively.  Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to
be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated
with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 at the end of its
useful life in 2043.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in
Note 1   Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants
and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs   FPL. 

Solar
Operations.     In 2008, the FPSC
approved FPL s proposal to construct three solar generating facilities, which
are expected to have a capacity totaling 110 mw.  The solar generating
facilities are expected to be placed into service by the end of 2010 at an
estimated total cost (including carrying charges) of approximately $728
million.  The construction costs of these new solar generating
facilities yet to be incurred as of December 31, 2008 are included in
estimated capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures
below.  See Note 15   Commitments. 

Energy Marketing and
Trading.   EMT, a division of FPL, buys and sells wholesale
energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT
procures natural gas and oil for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess
natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT also uses derivative
instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards, to manage the commodity price
risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and
electricity.  Substantially all of the results of EMT's activities are
passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses.  See
Retail Ratemaking, Management's Discussion   Results of Operations   FPL and
Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and
Note 3. 

Capital
Expenditures.   Capital expenditures at FPL include, among other
things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and
equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and
maintenance of existing facilities.  FPL's capital expenditures
totaled $2.3 billion in 2008 (including AFUDC of approximately $53 million),
$1.9 billion in 2007 (including AFUDC of approximately $36 million) and $1.7
billion in 2006 (including AFUDC of approximately $32
million).  Planned capital expenditures that are conditional on
obtaining regulatory approvals are not included in the table below until such
approvals are received. 

9 

At
December 31, 2008, planned capital expenditures for 2009 through 2013 were
estimated as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      AFUDC of approximately $63 million, $53 million, $32 million and $4
      million in 2009 to 2012, respectively. 

(b) 

Includes
      land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration
      and licensing. 

(c) 

Includes
      pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to the pretax AFUDC
      rate) on construction costs recoverable through the capacity clause of
      approximately $72 million, $201 million, $323 million, $50 million and $19
      million in 2009 to 2013, respectively. 

(d) 

Excludes
      capital expenditures of approximately $2.2 billion for the modernization
      of the Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants for the period from
      early-2010 (when approval by the Siting Board is expected) through
      2013.  Also excludes construction costs of approximately $2.5
      billion during the period 2012 to 2013 for the two additional nuclear
      units at FPL's Turkey Point site.  Construction costs will not
      begin until license approval is received from the NRC, which is expected
      in 2012. 

These
estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital
expenditures may vary from these estimates.  See Management's
Discussion  -  Liquidity
and Capital Resources  -  Contractual Obligations
and Planned Capital Expenditures and Note 15  -  Commitments. 

Electric and
Magnetic Fields.   EMF are present around electrical facilities,
including, but not limited to, appliances, power lines and building
wiring.  Since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific and
regulatory attention given to the question of whether EMF causes or contributes
to adverse health effects.  U.S. and international scientific
organizations have evaluated the EMF research.  Their reviews have
generally concluded that while some epidemiology studies report an association
with childhood leukemia, controlled laboratory studies do not support that
association and the scientific studies overall have not demonstrated that EMF
cause or contribute to any type of cancer or other disease. 

The FDEP established EMF standards for
electricity facilities in 1989.  The FDEP regularly reviews the EMF
science and has not made any changes in the state's EMF
standards.  FPL facilities comply with the FDEP
standards.  Future changes in the FDEP regulations could require
additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing the width
of right of ways or relocating or reconfiguring transmission
facilities.  It is not presently known whether any such expenditures
will be required.  Currently, there are no such changes proposed to
the FDEP regulations . 

Employees.   FPL
had approximately 10,700 employees at December 31,
2008.  Approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective
bargaining agreement with FPL, which has been extended until October 31,
2009.  FPL and the IBEW are discussing a proposal for a new
agreement. 

NEXTERA
ENERGY RESOURCES OPERATIONS 

General.   NextEra
Energy Resources, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was formed in
1998 to aggregate FPL Group's existing competitive energy
business.  It is a limited liability company organized under the laws
of Delaware.  Through its subsidiaries, NextEra Energy Resources
currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates primarily domestic
electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets.  NextEra
Energy Resources also provides full energy and capacity requirements services
primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and owns a retail
electric provider based in Texas. 

At
December 31, 2008, NextEra Energy Resources managed or participated in the
management of approximately 96% of its projects, which represented approximately
99% of the net generating capacity in which NextEra Energy Resources has an
ownership interest.  NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests
in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability
totaling 16,928 mw (see Item 2   Generating
Facilities).  Generation capacity spans various regions and is
produced using a variety of fuel sources, thereby reducing overall volatility
related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio
basis.  At December 31, 2008, the percentage of capacity by
geographic region was: 

Geographic
      Region 

Percentage
      of Generation Capacity 

ERCOT 

30 

% 

Northeast 

30 

% 

Midwest 

18 

% 

West 

15 

% 

Other
      South 

7 

% 

10 

At
December 31, 2008, fuel sources for these projects were as
follows: 

NextEra
Energy Resources seeks to expand its portfolio through project development and
acquisitions where economic prospects are attractive.  NextEra Energy
Resources expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily from
wind and solar development and from asset acquisitions.  NextEra
Energy Resources plans to add a total of 7,000 mw to 9,000 mw of new wind
generation over the 2008   2012 period, of which approximately 1,300 mw were
added in 2008.  NextEra Energy Resources expects to add approximately
1,100 mw in 2009, of which approximately 480 mw are either under construction or
have obtained applicable internal approvals for construction.  In
addition, NextEra Energy Resources intends to pursue opportunities for new solar
generating facilities.  The wind and solar expansions are subject to,
among other things, continued public policy support. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' capital expenditures and investments totaled approximately
$2.8 billion, $3.1 billion and $1.8 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  At December 31, 2008, planned capital expenditures
for 2009 through 2013 were estimated as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      capital expenditures for new wind projects that have been identified and
      related transmission.  NextEra Energy Resources expects to add
      approximately 1,100 mw in 2009 and 1,000 mw to 2,000 mw of new wind
      generation per year from 2010 through 2012, subject to, among other
      things, continued public policy support, which includes, but is not
      limited to, support for the construction and availability of sufficient
      transmission facilities and capacity, and access to reasonable capital and
      credit markets.  The cost of the planned wind additions for the
      2010 through 2012 period is estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion to
      $4.5 billion in each year, which is not included in the table
      above. 

(b) 

Includes
      nuclear fuel. 

These
estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital
expenditures may vary from these estimates.  See Management's
Discussion  -  Liquidity
and Capital Resources   Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expenditures
and Note 15  - 
Commitments. 

In July
2008, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) approved a $4.92 billion
transmission grid improvement program that would add approximately 2,300 miles
of 345 kv lines to deliver wind power from the Competitive Renewable Energy
Zones (CREZ) in west Texas and the Texas Panhandle to the Dallas/Fort Worth area
and other population centers in Texas.  In January 2009, Lone Star
Transmission, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, was
allocated $565 million in projects by the PUCT under the CREZ
program.  The January 2009 determination is subject to, among other
things, reconsideration, appeal and receipt of all applicable regulatory
approvals.  Due to these contingencies, the estimated costs associated
with this project are not included in the capital expenditures table
above. 

Regulation.   At
December 31, 2008, NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests in
operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale
generator status as defined under the Holding Company Act, which represent
approximately 95% of NextEra Energy Resources' net generating
capacity.  Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility
exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers.  They are
barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers.  NextEra
Energy Resources' exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind,
hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities.  In addition,
approximately 5% of NextEra Energy Resources' net generating capacity has
qualifying facility status under PURPA.  NextEra Energy Resources'
qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels or
waste-product combustion.  Qualifying facility status exempts the
projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the Federal Power
Act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or
organizational regulation of electric utilities.  While projects with
qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from
various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state
and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting,
construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental
laws. 

11 

Each of
the markets in which NextEra Energy Resources operates is subject to regulation
and specific rules.  NextEra Energy Resources continues to evaluate
regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the purchase and sale
of energy commodities.  California is scheduled to implement a
locational marginal price (LMP) market design, which is a market-pricing
approach used to manage the efficient use of the transmission system when
congestion occurs on the electricity grid, in the second quarter of
2009.  ERCOT is also implementing an LMP market design currently
scheduled to be implemented in late 2010.  In the California and ERCOT
markets, the final market design is not fully known at this time and NextEra
Energy Resources is currently unable to determine the effects, if any, on its
operations resulting from the implementation of the anticipated revised market
designs. 

Competition.   Competitive
wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic
region.  Revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based
on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary
services.  Some of the factors affecting success in these markets
include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the
price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar and hydro
resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation,
effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory
changes. 

Expanded
competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both
opportunities and risks for NextEra Energy Resources.  Opportunities
exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the
construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in
competitive markets.  NextEra Energy Resources seeks to reduce its
market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well
as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity
output of its plants.  The combination of new wind projects, expected
increase in contribution from existing merchant assets and asset acquisitions
are expected to be the key drivers supporting NextEra Energy Resources' growth
over the next few years. 

Environmental.   NextEra
Energy Resources is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is
affected by some of the emerging issues included in the Environmental Matters
section below. 

During
2008, NextEra Energy Resources spent approximately $4 million on capital
additions to comply with existing environmental laws and
regulations.  NextEra Energy Resources' capital additions to comply
with existing environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $11 million
for 2009 through 2011, including approximately $5 million in 2009, and are
included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in General
above. 

Portfolio by
Category.     NextEra Energy
Resources' assets can be categorized into the following three
groups:  wind, contracted and merchant. 

Wind Assets   -  At December 31, 2008,
NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests in wind plants with a combined
capacity of approximately 6,375 mw (net ownership), of which approximately 69%
have long-term contracts with utilities and power marketers, predominantly under
fixed-price agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to
2033.  The expected output of the remaining 31% is substantially
hedged through 2010 and partially hedged through 2013 against changes in
commodity prices.  NextEra Energy Resources operates substantially all
of these wind facilities.  Approximately 91% of NextEra Energy
Resources' net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale
generator status as defined under the Holding Company
Act.  Essentially all of the remaining facilities have qualifying
facility status under PURPA.  NextEra Energy Resources' wind
facilities are located in 16 states and Canada.  NextEra Energy
Resources expects to add approximately 1,100 mw of new wind generation in 2009,
of which approximately 480 mw are either under construction or have obtained
applicable internal approvals for construction. 

Contracted Assets    At
December 31, 2008, NextEra Energy Resources had 3,537 mw of non-wind
contracted assets.  The contracted category includes all projects,
other than wind, with contracts for substantially all of their
output.  Essentially all of these contracted assets were under power
sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2010
to 2033 and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates
ranging from 2009 to 2018.  See Note 15  - 
Contracts.  Approximately 1,825 mw of this capacity is natural
gas-fired generation.  The remaining 1,712 mw uses a variety of fuels
and technologies such as nuclear, waste-to-energy, oil, solar, coal and
petroleum coke.  As of December 31, 2008, approximately 92% of
NextEra Energy Resources' contracted generating capacity is from power plants
that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the Holding Company
Act, while the remaining 8% has qualifying facility status under
PURPA. 

Merchant Assets    At
December 31, 2008, NextEra Energy Resources' portfolio of merchant assets
includes 7,016 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of
which 2,789 mw is located in the ERCOT region, 2,751 mw in the NEPOOL region and
1,476 mw in other regions.  The merchant assets include 965 mw of peak
generating facilities.  Merchant assets are plants that do not have
long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require
active marketing and hedging.  Approximately 85% (based on net mw
capability) of the natural gas fueled merchant assets have natural gas supply
agreements or a combination of natural gas supply and transportation agreements
to provide for on-peak natural gas requirements.  See Note 15
 - 
Contracts.  Derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and
forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk
inherent in power sales and fuel purchases.  Managing market risk
through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty
and operational risks.  See Energy Marketing and Trading
below. 

12 

Nuclear
Operations.   NextEra Energy Resources wholly owns, or has
undivided interests in, three nuclear power plants with a total net generating
capability of 2,545 mw.  NextEra Energy Resources is responsible for
all plant operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the plants, the cost of
which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly owned
plants.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in
Note 1   Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of
Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs   NextEra Energy
Resources.  The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to
accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other
modifications.  The following table summarizes certain information
related to NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear units. 

____________________ 

(a) 

NextEra
      Energy Resources intends to seek approval from the NRC to renew Seabrook's
      operating license for an additional 20 years. 

(b) 

NextEra
      Energy Resources sells substantially all of its share of the output of
      Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in
  2014. 

(c) 

In
      September 2008, NextEra Energy Resources filed an application with the NRC
      to renew Duane Arnold s operating license for an additional 20
      years. 

(d) 

NextEra
      Energy Resources sells 100% of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and
      2 under a long-term contract through the current license
      terms. 

In 2004,
the NRC issued a bulletin requesting utilities to identify and inspect all alloy
600 and weld materials in all pressurizer locations and connected steam space
piping.  This issue impacts some pressurizer and reactor vessel
penetrations at Seabrook.  In order to meet industry requirements,
NextEra Energy Resources modified Seabrook's pressurizer penetrations that have
alloy 600 weld materials during its April 2008 outage and plans to begin
inspections of the reactor vessel alloy 600 penetrations during the scheduled
fall 2009 outage.  The estimated cost of modifications is included in
NextEra Energy Resources' estimated capital expenditures set forth in General
above.  All pressurizer penetrations at Point Beach
Units Nos. 1 and 2 use a different material except for the Point
Beach Unit No. 2 steam generator nozzles, which have been modified to
address the degradation concern.  Duane Arnold, which is a boiling
water reactor, is not affected by this issue. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply,
conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates
ranging from 2009 to 2018.  See Note 15  
Contracts.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE is responsible
for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and
high-level radioactive waste.  As required by the Nuclear Waste Policy
Act, subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources are parties to contracts with the
DOE to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its Seabrook, Duane
Arnold and Point Beach nuclear units.  The DOE was required to
construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide
transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for
a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power
plants.  The total cumulative amount of such fees paid to the DOE's
nuclear waste fund for Seabrook, Duane Arnold and Point Beach, including amounts
paid by all joint owners, since the start of the plants' operations through
December 2008, is approximately $491 million, of which NextEra Energy Resources
has paid approximately $75 million since the date of the plants'
acquisition.  NextEra Energy Resources, through its ownership interest
in Seabrook, Duane Arnold and Point Beach, is involved in litigation against the
DOE seeking damages caused by the DOE's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel
from the Seabrook, Duane Arnold and Point Beach facilities.  The
matter is pending.  The DOE filed a license application for a
permanent disposal facility for spent nuclear fuel with the NRC in June 2008,
and a licensing proceeding is ongoing before the NRC.  However, it is
uncertain when a permanent disposal facility will be constructed and when it
would be ready to begin receiving spent nuclear fuel shipments.  All
of NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear facilities use both on site storage pools
and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities,
which should allow NextEra Energy Resources to store spent nuclear fuel at these
facilities through license expiration. 

Energy Marketing and
Trading.   PMI, a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, buys
and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and
electricity.  Its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of
NextEra Energy Resources' portfolio and to sell the output from NextEra Energy
Resources' plants that has not been sold under long-term
contracts.  PMI procures natural gas and oil for NextEra Energy
Resources' use in power generation, as well as substantially all of the
electricity needs for NextEra Energy Resources' retail operations conducted
primarily in Texas, which at December 31, 2008 served approximately 1,200
mw of peak load to approximately 160,000 customers.  PMI uses
derivative instruments such as swaps, options and forwards to manage the risk
associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of
NextEra Energy Resources' power generation assets.  PMI also provides
full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution
utilities in certain markets and engages in energy trading activities to take
advantage of expected future favorable price movements.  Full energy
and capacity requirements services include load-following services, which
require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load
demand needs of the customer, as well as various ancillary
services.  At December 31, 2008, PMI provided full energy and
capacity requirements services totaling approximately 3,300 mw of peak load in
the NEPOOL, PJM and ERCOT markets.  The results of PMI's activities
are included in NextEra Energy Resources' operating results.  See
Management's Discussion   Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk
Sensitivity, Note 1   Energy Trading and Note 3. 

13 

Employees.   NextEra
Energy Resources had approximately 4,350 employees at December 31,
2008.  Subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources have collective
bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the table
below. 

____________________ 

(a) 

Various
      employees at Point Beach are represented by the IBEW under four separate
      contracts with different expiration
dates. 

In
addition, the employees of an operating project in California, constituting less
than 1% of NextEra Energy Resources' employees, are represented by the IBEW,
which is currently negotiating its first collective bargaining
agreement. 

OTHER
FPL GROUP OPERATIONS 

FPL
Group's Corporate and Other segment represents other business activities,
primarily FPL FiberNet, that are not separately reportable.  See
Note 16. 

FPL
FiberNet.   FPL FiberNet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group
Capital, was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Group's fiber-optic
network assets that were originally built to support FPL
operations.  Accordingly, in 2000, FPL's existing fiber-optic lines
were transferred to FPL FiberNet.  FPL FiberNet is a limited liability
company organized under the laws of Delaware.  FPL FiberNet leases
wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other
customers, primarily telephone, wireless carriers, internet and other
telecommunications companies.  FPL FiberNet's primary business focus
is the Florida metropolitan (metro) market.  Metro networks cover
Miami, Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando and
Jacksonville.  FPL FiberNet also has a long-haul network within
Florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale rates.  At
December 31, 2008, FPL FiberNet's network consisted of approximately 2,745
route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout Florida. 

In 2006,
as a result of significant changes in the business climate, FPL FiberNet
performed an impairment analysis and concluded that an impairment charge related
to its metro market assets was necessary.  The business climate
changes included customer consolidations, migration to a more efficient form of
networking technology and lack of future benefits to be achieved through
competitive pricing, all of which had a negative impact on the value of FPL
FiberNet's metro market assets.  While the metro market business was
expected to continue to generate positive cash flows, management's expectation
of the rate of future growth in cash flows was reduced as a result of these
business climate changes.  Accordingly, FPL FiberNet recorded an
impairment charge of approximately $98 million ($60 million after-tax) in
2006.  See Note 5   Corporate and Other.  Currently, the
wireless sector is experiencing growth, which has been offset by consolidations,
price declines and loss of customers in the wire line sector. 

At
December 31, 2008, FPL Group's investment in FPL FiberNet totaled
approximately $130 million.  FPL FiberNet invested approximately $28
million during 2008 and plans to invest a total of approximately $140 million
over the next five years primarily to meet customers' specific requirements
under contract. 

ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS 

Federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality,
land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from power lines and
substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and
aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other
environmental matters.  Compliance with these laws and regulations
increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes
in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the
location, design, construction and operation of new
facilities.  Environmental laws and regulations are subject to
change.  The following is a discussion of emerging federal and state
initiatives and rules that could potentially affect FPL Group and its
subsidiaries, including FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. 

Climate Change   -  The U.S. Congress and
certain states and regions are considering several legislative and regulatory
proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and reduction targets
for greenhouse gases.  Based on current reference data available from
government sources, FPL Group is among the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases
in the United States measured by its rate of emissions to generation in pounds
per megawatt-hour.  However, these legislative and regulatory
proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL's and
NextEra Energy Resources' generating units and/or the financial impact (either
positive or negative) to FPL Group and FPL could be material, depending on the
eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation rules
adopted. 

14 

In
anticipation of the potential for further imposition of greenhouse gas emission
limits on the electric industry in the future, FPL Group is involved in several
climate change initiatives, including, but not limited to, the
following: 

participation
      in various groups, including working with the Governor of Florida on the
      Governor's Action Team on Energy and Climate Change, the FDEP, the Florida
      Energy and Climate Commission and the FPSC in addressing executive orders
      issued in 2007 by the Governor of Florida (see below for additional
      information); 

voluntary
      reporting of its greenhouse gas emissions to the DOE under the Energy
      Policy Act of 1992; 

voluntary
      reporting of its greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategy
      through the Carbon Disclosure Project (an investor-led initiative to
      identify climate change impacts on publicly-traded
    companies); 

participation
      in the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (an alliance made up of a diverse
      group of U.S.-based businesses and environmental organizations, which in
      January 2009 issued the Blueprint for Legislative Action, a set of
      legislative principles and recommendations to address global climate
      change and the reduction of greenhouse gas
  emissions); 

participation
      in the Clinton Global Initiative (an organization which seeks to foster
      shared commitment by individuals, businesses and governments to confront
      major world issues and achieve real
change); 

participation
      in the EPA's Climate Leaders Program to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in
      the United States 18% by 2012, including reporting of emissions data
      annually.  During 2008, FPL Group met its commitment to achieve
      a 2008 target emissions rate reduction of 18% below a 2001 baseline
      emission rate measured in pounds per megawatt-hour;
  and 

supporting
      Edison Electric Institute's climate change framework, which supports the
      concept of mandatory legislation capping carbon emissions economy wide and
      recommends, among other things, an 80% reduction of carbon emissions from
      current levels by 2050. 

In July
2007, the Governor of Florida issued three executive orders aimed at reducing
Florida greenhouse gas emissions and improving Florida's energy
efficiency.  The orders state, among other things, that Florida
utilities will be required to reduce emissions to 2000 levels by 2017; to 1990
levels by 2025; and to 20% of 1990 levels by 2050, and that the FPSC should
begin the process of adopting a renewable portfolio standard (RPS) that would
require utilities to produce at least 20% of their energy from renewable
sources, with an emphasis on wind and solar energy.  In May 2008, the
Florida legislature passed an energy bill which required the FPSC to develop an
RPS and to provide a draft of an RPS rule to the legislature by February 1,
2009.  The FPSC s draft rule, submitted to the legislature in late
January 2009, requires, among other things, Florida investor-owned utilities,
including FPL, to meet certain renewable energy standards.  The
standards are to be met through the production or the purchase of renewable
energy credits and are defined as percentages of the prior year s retail
megawatt-hour electricity sales, beginning with a standard of 7% by
January 1, 2013 and culminating with a standard of 20% by January 1,
2021.  The draft rule authorizes recovery of the costs associated with
the construction and operation of new renewable energy resources, purchase of
renewable energy credits and the purchase of capacity and energy from existing
and new renewable energy resources through a new renewable energy cost recovery
clause.  As proposed by the FPSC, renewable energy resources would
include new solar and wind generation.  The FPSC's submission to the
legislature also provides reasons supporting expansion of the 2008 legislation
through new legislation to include clean energy resources such as new nuclear
facilities and uprates approved by the FPSC since 2006, energy savings from
energy efficiency and energy savings from demand side management programs in
meeting the RPS.  The FPSC's draft rule also addresses the cost of
compliance by providing a cap on the increase to customer revenue requirements
due to the purchase of renewable energy credits and/or the construction of
renewable energy resources of up to 2% of the utility's total annual revenues
from retail sales of electricity.  The May 2008 energy legislation
also authorizes the FDEP to develop a cap and trade rule (a system by which
affected generators buy and trade allowances under a set cap) to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, but provides that the rule will not be adopted until
after January 1, 2010 and will not be effective until ratified by the
legislature.  The final requirements and their impact on FPL and FPL
Group cannot be determined at this time. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' plants operate in many states and regions that are in the
process of developing legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including,
but not limited to, the following: 

The
      Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) is a greenhouse gas reduction
      initiative whereby ten Northeast and Mid-Atlantic member states have
      established a cap and trade program for covered electric generating units
      in Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,
      Vermont, Maryland, Massachusetts and Rhode Island.  RGGI members
      have agreed to stabilize power plant CO 2 
      emissions at 2009 levels through the end of 2014 and to further reduce the
      sector's emissions another 10% by the end of 2018.  The RGGI
      greenhouse gas reduction requirements will affect 12 NextEra Energy
      Resources fossil electric generating units, requiring those electric
      generating units to reduce emissions or to acquire CO 2 
      allowances for emissions of CO 2 
      beginning in 2009.  All RGGI states have enacted legislation and
      regulations.  Based on NextEra Energy Resources' clean
      generating portfolio in the RGGI marketplace, NextEra Energy Resources
      expects that the requirement will have a positive overall impact on
      NextEra Energy Resources' earnings in
2009. 

15 

The
      Western Climate Initiative (WCI) is a greenhouse gas reduction initiative
      with a goal of reducing CO 2 
      emissions by 15% below 2005 levels by 2020 for participants (Arizona,
      California, Oregon, Montana, New Mexico, Washington and Utah, as well as
      British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec,
  Canada). 

California
      Greenhouse Gas Regulation   California has enacted legislation to reduce
      greenhouse gas emissions in the state to 1990 emissions levels by
      2020.  Pursuant to the legislation, the California Air Resources
      Board (CARB) must implement multi-sector greenhouse gas reduction measures
      by January 1, 2012.  The CARB has recommended that California
      not implement a state-only greenhouse gas reduction program but instead
      participate in the regional WCI
program. 

The
      Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (MGGRA) is an initiative to
      reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the establishment of targets for
      greenhouse gas reductions and the development of a cap and trade
      program.  Participants in MGGRA are Illinois, Iowa, Kansas,
      Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Manitoba, Canada.  The final
      Model Rule is expected in September 2009, with a cap and trade program
      beginning in January 2012.  MGGRA is a multi-sector program that
      will initially be focused on the electricity generation and imports,
      industrial combustion and industrial processes sectors.  NextEra
      Energy Resources does not have any fossil-fired generation in the MGGRA
      region. 

Except
as discussed above regarding the RGGI, the final requirements to be enacted in
connection with these initiatives are uncertain and the financial and
operational impacts on FPL Group cannot be determined at this
time.  However, NextEra Energy Resources' portfolio in these regions
is heavily weighted toward non-CO 2  emitting
and low CO 2
 emitting generation sources (wind, hydro, solar, nuclear and natural
gas). 

Clean Air Act Mercury/Nickel Rule
  -  During 2005,
the EPA determined that new data indicated that nickel emissions from oil-fired
units and mercury emissions from coal-fired units should not be regulated under
Section 112 of the Clean Air Act, which set Maximum Achievable Control
Technology standards (MACT), and as a result the EPA published a final rule
delisting nickel and mercury from the requirements of regulation under Section
112.  In lieu of regulation under Section 112, the EPA issued a final
rule (Clean Air Mercury Rule) to regulate mercury emissions from coal-fired
electric utility steam generating units under Section 111 of the Clean Air
Act.  The mercury and nickel delisting rule, as well as the Clean Air
Mercury Rule, were challenged by various states and environmental
groups.  In February 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia vacated both the EPA's mercury and nickel delisting rule and the
Clean Air Mercury Rule and in May 2008, denied EPA s request for
rehearing.  Several petitioners, including the EPA, requested review
of the delisting decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, however, their requests
were denied after the EPA requested withdrawal of its petition.  The
EPA will now proceed with MACT rulemaking under Section
112.  Depending upon the final outcome of the EPA's rulemaking, it is
possible that certain FPL oil-fired units, Scherer Unit No. 4, SJRPP Units
Nos. 1 and 2, certain coal-fired units from which FPL purchases power and
three of NextEra Energy Resources  oil-fired units in Maine may be required to
add additional pollution control equipment. 

Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR)
  -  In 2005, the
EPA published a final rule that requires SO 2  and NOx
emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states, where the
emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to
downwind states, allegedly resulting in fine particulate (PM 2.5) and ozone
non-attainment areas.  In July 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia issued an opinion vacating the CAIR and remanded the rule
to the EPA for further rulemaking.  In September 2008, the EPA and
three other parties petitioned for rehearing of that order.  In
December 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia remanded
the CAIR back to EPA for further rulemaking without vacating the
rule.  Because the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
chose not to vacate the rule, FPL Group and FPL were required to begin complying
with the current version of the CAIR on January 1, 2009 and must continue
to comply until the EPA rewrites the rule.  FPL Group and FPL do not
expect the impact of complying with the current version of the CAIR to have a
material effect on their financial statements. 

Clean Air Visibility Rule
  -  In 2005, the
EPA issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule to address regional haze in areas which
include certain national park and wilderness areas through the installation of
BART for electric generating units.  BART eligible units include those
built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons
of visibility-impairing pollution per year.  The rule requires states
to complete BART determinations and allows for a five-year period to implement
pollution controls.  While the impact of the final BART requirements
of the Clean Air Visibility Rule are uncertain, FPL s Turkey Point Fossil Units
Nos. 1 and 2 and one of NextEra Energy Resources  units located in Maine
may be required to add additional emissions controls or switch fuels to meet the
BART compliance requirements. 

In 2007,
the FDEP began the process to expand the number of units covered under the
"Reasonable Further Progress" provision of the Clear Air Visibility Rule in an
effort to reduce emissions of SO 2  in areas
which include certain national park and wilderness areas.  The
provision requires that control measures be in place by 2017.  Six of
FPL's generating facilities are affected under the Reasonable Further Progress
provision (Manatee Units Nos. 1 and 2, Port Everglades Units Nos. 3
and 4 and Turkey Point Fossil Units Nos. 1 and 2).  While the
final requirements of the Reasonable Further Progress provision are uncertain,
it is possible that these units may be required to add additional emission
controls or switch fuels to meet the provision's emissions
requirements. 

16 

Clean Water Act Section
316(b)   -  In
2004, the EPA issued a rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act to
address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at
existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems.  The
rule would have required FPL Group to demonstrate that it had met or would meet
new impingement mortality (the loss of organisms against screens and other
exclusion devices) and/or entrainment (the loss of organisms by passing through
the cooling water system) reductions by complying with one of several
alternatives, including the use of technology and/or operational
measures.  In 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
ruled on a challenge to the rule by a number of environmental groups and six
northeastern states.  In its ruling, the court eliminated several of
the compliance alternatives, including the use of a "cost-benefit test" and
restoration measures, from consideration and remanded the rule to the EPA for
further rulemaking.  As a result of the 2007 court decision, the EPA
has suspended its rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act and directed
its jurisdictions to address Section 316(b) compliance based on best
professional judgment when issuing and renewing permits.  In December
2008, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments with respect to the portion of
the rule related to the cost-benefit test in determining the best technology
available for minimizing adverse environmental impacts from the use of large
cooling water intake systems at existing power plants.  Although the
EPA has initiated new Section 316(b) rulemaking consistent with the ruling of
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, a new rule may be delayed
until after the U.S. Supreme Court makes its decision, which is not expected
until June 2009.  Depending upon the final outcome of the litigation,
additional rulemaking by the EPA could impact eight of FPL's generating
facilities (Cape Canaveral, Cutler, Fort Myers, Lauderdale, Port Everglades,
Sanford, Riviera and St. Lucie) and three NextEra Energy Resources plants
(Seabrook, Point Beach and an oil-fired plant in Maine). 

Revisions to the National Ambient
Air Quality Standards for Ozone   -  In March 2008, the EPA
issued a final rule establishing a new standard for ground-level ozone at 75
parts per billion. States are required to (i) obtain designation of
non-attainment areas by 2010, (ii) develop plans to meet the attainment standard
by 2013 and (iii) begin meeting the attainment standard between 2013 and 2030
based on non-attainment severity.  Generating facilities located in
areas designated as non-attainment may be required to add additional pollution
control equipment.  A review of recent ozone monitoring data indicates
that some or all of FPL's generating facilities may be located in or affected by
non-attainment areas, or areas projected to be in non-attainment. 

17 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF FPL GROUP
  (a)  

____________________ 

(a) 

Information
      is as of February 26, 2009.  Executive officers are elected
      annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of
      directors.  Except as noted below, each officer has held his
      present position for five years or more and his employment history is
      continuous.  Mr. Bennett was vice president, business strategy
        policy of FPL Group from July 2007 to February 15,
      2008.  Prior to that, Mr. Bennett was vice president of Dean
        Company, a management consulting and investment firm.  Mr.
      Davidson was senior vice president of business management of NextEra
      Energy Resources from March 2005 to December 2006.  He was vice
      president of business management of NextEra Energy Resources from June
      2004 to March 2005.  Mr. Davis was also controller of FPL from
      July 1991 to September 2007.  Mr. Hay was also chief executive
      officer of FPL from January 2002 to July 2008.  Mr. Hay was
      president of FPL Group from June 2001 to December 2006.  Mr.
      McGrath was senior vice president, engineering and construction of FPL
      from November 2002 to February 2005.  Mr. Pimentel was a partner
      of Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting
      firm, from June 1998 to February 2008.  Mr. Poppell was vice
      president, human resources of FPL from November 2006 to December 2008.
       He was director, employee relations of FPL from January 2005 to
      November 2006.  From March 2003 to January 2005, Mr. Poppell was a
      senior attorney of FPL.  Mr. Robo was president of NextEra
      Energy Resources from July 2002 to December 2006.  He was also
      vice president, corporate development and strategy of FPL Group from March
      2002 to December 2006.  Mr. Sieving was executive vice
      president, general counsel and secretary of PAETEC Holding Corp., a
      communications services and solutions provider, from February 2007 to
      November 2008 and was primarily responsible for all legal and regulatory
      matters.  From January 2005 to February 2007, Mr. Sieving was a
      partner in the corporate, securities and finance practice group of Hogan
        Hartson LLP, an international law firm, with which he had been
      associated since October 1998.  Mr. Stall was also executive
      vice president, nuclear division of FPL Group from January 2007 to
      December 2008  (b) . 

(b) 

Title
      changed from vice president to executive vice president effective May 23,
      2008. 

(c) 

Title
      changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective
      July 17, 2008. 

18 

Item
1A.  Risk Factors 

Risks
Relating to FPL Group's and FPL's Business 

FPL
Group and FPL are subject to complex laws and regulations and to changes in laws
and regulations as well as changing governmental policies and regulatory
actions.  FPL holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and
counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements.  These factors may
have a negative impact on the business and results of operations of FPL Group
and FPL. 

FPL
      Group and FPL are subject to complex laws and regulations, and to changes
      in laws or regulations, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates
      of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power
      facilities, construction and operation of generation facilities,
      construction and operation of transmission and distribution facilities,
      acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and
      facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning
      costs, ROE and equity ratio limits, transmission reliability and present
      or prospective wholesale and retail competition.  This
      substantial and complex framework exposes FPL Group and FPL to increased
      compliance costs and potentially significant monetary penalties for
      non-compliance.  The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery
      by FPL of any and all costs that it considers excessive or imprudently
      incurred.  The regulatory process generally restricts FPL's
      ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to
      achievement of earnings levels. 

FPL
      Group and FPL also are subject to extensive federal, state and local
      environmental statutes, rules and regulations, as well as the effect of
      changes in or additions to applicable statutes, rules and regulations that
      relate to, or in the future may relate to, for example, air quality, water
      quality, climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, CO 2 
      emissions, waste management, marine and wildlife mortality, natural
      resources, health, safety and renewable portfolio standards that could,
      among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or
      the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or
      require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase
      costs.  There are significant capital, operating and other costs
      associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and
      regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the
      future. 

FPL
      Group and FPL operate in a changing market environment influenced by
      various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding regulation,
      deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including, for
      example, deregulation or restructuring of the production and sale of
      electricity, as well as increased focus on renewable and clean energy
      sources and reduction of carbon emissions.  FPL Group and its
      subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing
      costs and competitive pressure in doing
so. 

FPL
      Group's and FPL's results of operations could be affected by FPL's ability
      to negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and
      counties in Florida. 

The
operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution
facilities involve significant risks that could adversely affect the results of
operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL. 

The
      operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and
      distribution facilities involve many risks, including, for example, start
      up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission and distribution
      lines or pipelines, the inability to properly manage or mitigate known
      equipment defects throughout FPL Group's and FPL's generation fleets and
      transmission and distribution systems, use of new or unproven technology,
      the dependence on a specific fuel source, failures in the supply or
      transportation of fuel, the impact of unusual or adverse weather
      conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods and
      droughts), and performance below expected or contracted levels of output
      or efficiency.  This could result in lost revenues and/or
      increased expenses, including, for example, lost revenues due to prolonged
      outages and increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines,
      replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate
      replacement power at potentially higher prices to meet contractual
      obligations.  Insurance, warranties or performance guarantees
      may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased
      expenses.  Breakdown or failure of an operating facility of
      NextEra Energy Resources may, for example, prevent the facility from
      performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain
      situations, could result in termination of the agreement or subject
      NextEra Energy Resources to incurring a liability for liquidated
      damages. 

The
operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks,
including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and financial risks, that
could result in fines or the closure of nuclear units owned by FPL or NextEra
Energy Resources, and which may present potential exposures in excess of
insurance coverage. 

FPL
      and NextEra Energy Resources own, or hold undivided interests in, nuclear
      generation facilities in four states.  These nuclear facilities
      are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as on-site
      storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of spent nuclear
      fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning,
      potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities,
      and the threat of a possible terrorist attack.  Although FPL and
      NextEra Energy Resources maintain decommissioning trusts and external
      insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks, it
      is possible that the cost of decommissioning the facilities could exceed
      the amount available in the decommissioning trusts, and that liability and
      property damages could exceed the amount of insurance
      coverage. 

19 

The
      NRC has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related
      requirements for the construction and operation and maintenance of nuclear
      generation facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC
      has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending
      upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is
      achieved.  NRC orders or new regulations related to increased
      security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the
      NRC could require FPL and NextEra Energy Resources to incur substantial
      operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants.  In
      addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur at an FPL or NextEra
      Energy Resources plant, it could result in substantial costs.  A
      major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the
      NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic
      nuclear unit. 

In
      addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of
      utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs
      which are difficult or impossible to
predict. 

The
construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation and transmission
facilities involve substantial risks.  Should construction or capital
improvement efforts be unsuccessful or delayed, the results of operations and
financial condition of FPL Group and FPL could be adversely
affected. 

The
      ability of FPL Group and FPL to complete construction of, and capital
      improvement projects for, their power generation and transmission
      facilities on schedule and within budget are contingent upon many
      variables that could delay completion, increase costs or otherwise
      adversely affect operational and financial results, including, for
      example, limitations related to transmission interconnection issues,
      escalating costs for materials and labor and environmental compliance,
      delays with respect to permits and other approvals, and disputes involving
      third parties, and are subject to substantial risks.  Should any
      such efforts be unsuccessful or delayed, FPL Group and FPL could be
      subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed
      contracts, loss of tax credits and/or the write-off of their investment in
      the project or improvement. 

The
use of derivative contracts by FPL Group and FPL in the normal course of
business could result in financial losses or the payment of margin cash
collateral that adversely impact the results of operations or cash flows of FPL
Group and FPL. 

FPL
      Group and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures
      and forwards, some of which are traded in the over-the-counter markets or
      on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and
      for FPL Group to engage in trading and marketing
      activities.  FPL Group could recognize financial losses as a
      result of volatility in the market values of these derivative instruments,
      or if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments under these
      derivative instruments and could suffer a reduction in operating cash
      flows as a result of the requirement to post margin cash
      collateral.  In the absence of actively quoted market prices and
      pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these
      derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of
      estimates.  As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions
      or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair
      value of these derivative instruments.  In addition, FPL's use
      of such instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found
      imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by the
  FPSC. 

FPL
      Group provides full energy and capacity requirement services, which
      include load-following services and various ancillary services, primarily
      to distribution utilities to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities 
      power supply obligations to their customers.  The supply costs
      for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, such as
      weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services,
      and the ability of the distribution utilities  customers to elect to
      receive service from competing suppliers, which could negatively affect
      FPL Group s results of operations from these
  transactions. 

FPL
Group's competitive energy business is subject to risks, many of which are
beyond the control of FPL Group, including, but not limited to, the efficient
development and operation of generating assets, the successful and timely
completion of project restructuring activities, the price and supply of fuel and
equipment, transmission constraints, competition from other generators,
including those using new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and
demand for power, that may reduce the revenues and adversely impact the results
of operations and financial condition of FPL Group. 

There
      are various risks associated with FPL Group's competitive energy
      business.  In addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk
      factors specifically affecting NextEra Energy Resources' success in
      competitive wholesale markets include, for example, the ability to
      efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and
      timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the
      qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of
      fuel (including transportation) and equipment, transmission constraints,
      the ability to utilize PTCs, competition from other and new sources of
      generation, excess generation capacity and shifting demand for
      power.  There can be significant volatility in market prices for
      fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, and there
      are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the
      control of NextEra Energy Resources.  NextEra Energy Resources'
      inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against
      changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or
      other risk measures could significantly impair FPL Group's future
      financial results.  In keeping with industry trends, a portion
      of NextEra Energy Resources' power generation facilities operate wholly or
      partially without long-term power purchase agreements.  As a
      result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a
      short-term contractual basis, which may increase the volatility of FPL
      Group's financial results.  In addition, NextEra Energy
      Resources' business depends upon power transmission and natural gas
      transportation facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission or
      transportation is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable,
      NextEra Energy Resources' ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power
      or natural gas may be limited. 

20 

FPL
Group's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is
subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of
increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the
power industry. 

FPL
      Group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition
      opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation
      of the power industry in general.  In addition, FPL Group may be
      unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable
      prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely
      manner. 

FPL
Group and FPL participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth, future income
and expenditures. 

FPL
      Group and FPL participate in markets that are susceptible to uncertain
      economic conditions, which complicate estimates of revenue
      growth.  Because components of budgeting and forecasting are
      dependent upon estimates of revenue growth in the markets FPL Group and
      FPL serve, the uncertainty makes estimates of future income and
      expenditures more difficult.  As a result, FPL Group and FPL may
      make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the
      anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect results of
      operations.  The future direction of the overall economy also
      may have a significant effect on the overall performance and financial
      condition of FPL Group and FPL. 

Customer
growth and customer usage in FPL's service area affect FPL Group's and FPL's
results of operations. 

FPL
      Group's and FPL's results of operations are affected by the growth in
      customer accounts in FPL's service area and by customer
      usage.  Customer growth can be affected by population
      growth.  Customer growth and customer usage can be affected by
      economic factors in Florida and elsewhere, including, for example, job and
      income growth, housing starts and new home prices.  Customer
      growth and customer usage directly influence the demand for electricity
      and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities
      at FPL. 

Weather
affects FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations, as can the impact of severe
weather.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for
electricity and natural gas, affect the price of energy commodities, and can
affect the production of electricity at power generating
facilities. 

FPL
      Group's and FPL's results of operations are affected by changes in the
      weather.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for
      electricity and natural gas, affect the price of energy commodities, and
      can affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities,
      including, but not limited to, wind, solar and hydro-powered
      facilities.  FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations can be
      affected by the impact of severe weather which can be destructive, causing
      outages and/or property damage, may affect fuel supply, and could require
      additional costs to be incurred.  At FPL, recovery of these
      costs is subject to FPSC approval. 

Adverse
capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect FPL Group's and FPL's
ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital and operate and grow their
businesses, and increase the cost of capital.  Disruptions,
uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets can also adversely impact the
results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL, as well as
exert downward pressure on the market price of FPL Group's common
stock. 

Having
      access to the credit and capital markets, at a reasonable cost, is
      necessary for FPL Group and FPL to fund their operations, including their
      capital requirements. Those markets have provided FPL Group and FPL with
      the liquidity to operate and grow their businesses that is not otherwise
      provided from operating cash flows.  Disruptions, uncertainty or
      volatility in those markets can increase FPL Group's and FPL's cost of
      capital.  If FPL Group and FPL are unable to access the credit
      and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay
      raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and/or bear an unfavorable
      cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely impact their ability to
      grow their businesses, decrease earnings, significantly reduce financial
      flexibility and/or limit FPL Group's ability to sustain its current common
      stock dividend level. 

The
      market price and trading volume of FPL Group's common stock could be
      subject to significant fluctuations due to, among other things, general
      stock market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding FPL
      Group and its subsidiaries' operations, business, growth prospects and
      financing strategies. 

FPL
Group s, FPL Group Capital s and FPL s inability to maintain their current
credit ratings may adversely affect FPL Group s and FPL s liquidity, limit the
ability of FPL Group and FPL to grow their businesses, and would likely increase
interest costs. 

FPL
      Group and FPL rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant
      sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating
      cash flows.  The inability of FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and
      FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to
      raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could
      impact FPL Group's and FPL's ability to grow their businesses and would
      likely increase their interest
costs. 

21 

FPL
Group and FPL are subject to credit and performance risk from third parties
under supply and service contracts. 

FPL
      Group and FPL rely on contracts with vendors for the supply of equipment,
      materials, fuel and other goods and services required for the construction
      and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities, as
      well as for business operations.  If vendors fail to fulfill their
      contractual obligations, FPL Group and FPL may need to make arrangements
      with other suppliers, which could result in higher costs, untimely
      completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a
      disruption to their operations. 

FPL
Group and FPL are subject to costs and other potentially adverse effects of
legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as regulatory compliance and changes
in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation,
accounting standards, securities laws, corporate governance requirements and
labor and employment laws. 

FPL
      Group and FPL are subject to costs and other potentially adverse effects
      of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations and
      claims, as well as regulatory compliance and the effect of new, or changes
      in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards,
      securities laws, corporate governance requirements and labor and
      employment laws. 

FPL
      and NextEra Energy Resources, as owners and operators of bulk power
      transmission systems and/or critical assets within various regions
      throughout the United States, are subject to mandatory reliability
      standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability
      Corporation and enforced by the FERC.  These standards, which
      previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory in
      June 2007.  Noncompliance with these mandatory reliability
      standards could result in sanctions, including substantial monetary
      penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from
      customers. 

Threats
of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber
attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt FPL Group's and
FPL's business may impact the operations of FPL Group and FPL in unpredictable
ways. 

FPL
      Group and FPL are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist
      threats and activities, as well as cyber attacks and disruptive activities
      of individuals and/or groups.  Infrastructure facilities and
      systems, including, for example, generation, transmission and distribution
      facilities, physical assets and information systems, in general, have been
      identified as potential targets.  The effects of these threats
      and activities include, but are not limited to, the inability to generate,
      purchase or transmit power, the delay in development and construction of
      new generating facilities, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or
      a decline in the U.S. economy, delay in economic recovery in the United
      States, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and
      insurance. 

The
ability of FPL Group and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available
insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state
or local events and company-specific events. 

FPL
      Group's and FPL's ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and
      coverage provided by such insurance, could be adversely affected by
      international, national, state or local events as well as company-specific
      events. 

FPL
Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely
affect the businesses and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL. 

FPL
      Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors, including, for
      example, loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified
      personnel, inflationary pressures on payroll and benefits costs and
      collective bargaining agreements with union employees and work stoppage
      that could adversely affect the businesses and financial condition of FPL
      Group and FPL. 

The
risks described herein are not the only risks facing FPL Group and
FPL.  Additional risks and uncertainties also may materially adversely
affect FPL Group's or FPL's business, financial condition and/or future
operating results. 

Item
1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments 

None 

22 

Item
2.  Properties 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate for their
operations.  At December 31, 2008, the electric generating,
transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented
approximately 45%, 13%, 38% and 4%, respectively, of FPL's gross investment in
electric utility plant in service. 

Generating
Facilities  .   At
December 31, 2008, FPL Group had the following generating
facilities: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Represents
      FPL's net ownership interest in plant capacity. 

(b) 

Excludes
      Orlando Utilities Commission's and the FMPA's combined share of
      approximately 15% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2. 

(c) 

Represents
      FPL's 20% ownership interest in each of SJRPP Units Nos. 1 and 2,
      which are jointly owned with JEA. 

(d) 

Represents
      FPL's approximately 76% ownership of Scherer Unit No. 4, which is
      jointly owned with JEA. 

(e) 

Substantially
      all of FPL's properties are subject to the lien of FPL's
      mortgage. 

23 

24 

____________________ 

(a) 

Represents
      NextEra Energy Resources' net ownership interest in plant
      capacity. 

(b) 

These
      consolidated generating facilities are encumbered by liens against their
      assets securing various financings. 

(c) 

NextEra
      Energy Resources owns these wind facilities together with third party
      investors with differential membership interests.  See
      Note 11   Sale of Differential Membership
  Interests. 

(d) 

Represents
      plants with no more than 50% ownership using wind
      technology.  Certain facilities, totaling 57 mw, are encumbered
      by liens against their assets securing a financing. 

(e) 

Excludes
      Central Iowa Power Cooperative and Cornbelt Power Cooperative's combined
      share of 30%. 

(f) 

Represents
      plants with no more than 50% ownership using fuels and technologies such
      as natural gas, waste-to-energy and coal. 

(g) 

Excludes
      seven other energy-related partners' combined share of
  24%. 

(h) 

Excludes
      Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company's, Taunton Municipal
      Lighting Plant's and Hudson Light   Power Department's combined share
      of 11.77%. 

Transmission and
Distribution.   At December 31, 2008, FPL owned and
operated the following electric transmission and distribution
lines: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      approximately 75 miles owned jointly with
JEA. 

In
addition, at December 31, 2008, FPL owned and operated 581 substations, one
of which is jointly owned.  See Note 8. 

Character of
Ownership.   Substantially all of FPL's properties are subject
to the lien of FPL's mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by
FPL.  The majority of FPL Group's principal properties are held by FPL
in fee and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions, none
of which is of such a nature as to substantially impair the usefulness to FPL of
such properties.  Some of FPL's electric lines are located on land not
owned in fee but are covered by necessary consents of governmental authorities
or rights obtained from owners of private property.  The majority of
NextEra Energy Resources' generating facilities are held in fee and a number of
those facilities are encumbered by liens against their assets securing various
financings.  Additionally, some of NextEra Energy Resources' wind
turbines are located on land leased from owners of private
property.  See Generating Facilities and Note 1   Electric Plant,
Depreciation and Amortization. 

25 

Item
3.  Legal Proceedings 

FPL
Group and FPL are parties to various legal and regulatory proceedings in the
ordinary course of their respective businesses.  For information
regarding legal and regulatory proceedings that could have a material effect on
FPL Group or FPL, see Note 15   Legal and Regulatory
Proceedings.  Such descriptions are incorporated herein by
reference. 

Item
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

None 

PART
II 

Item
5.  Market for Registrants' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

Common Stock
Data.   All of FPL's common stock is owned by FPL
Group.  FPL Group's common stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol "FPL."  The high and low sales prices for
the common stock of FPL Group as reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange and the cash dividends per share
declared for each quarter during the past two years are as follows: 

The
amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Group's common stock are within
the sole discretion of FPL Group's Board of Directors.  The Board of
Directors reviews the dividend rate at least annually (generally in February) to
determine its appropriateness in light of FPL Group's financial position and
results of operations, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the
electric utility industry in general and FPL in particular, competitive
conditions and any other factors the board deems relevant.  The
ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon,
among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries.  There
are no restrictions in effect that currently limit FPL's ability to pay
dividends to FPL Group.  In February 2009, FPL Group announced that it
would increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.445 to $0.4725
per share.  See Management's Discussion  -  Liquidity and Capital
Resources   Covenants with respect to dividend restrictions and Note 12
 -  Common Stock
Dividend Restrictions regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group. 

As of
the close of business on January 31, 2009, there were 28,774 holders of
record of FPL Group's common stock. 

Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.   Information regarding purchases made by FPL
Group of its common stock is as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Represents
      shares of common stock withheld from employees to pay certain withholding
      taxes upon the vesting of stock awards granted to such employees under the
      LTIP. 

(b) 

In
      February 2005, FPL Group's Board of Directors authorized a common stock
      repurchase plan of up to 20 million shares of common stock over an
      unspecified period, which authorization was ratified and confirmed by the
      Board of Directors in December
2005. 

26 

Item
6.  Selected Financial Data 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses associated with
      non-qualifying hedges and other than temporary impairment
      losses. 

(b) 

Includes
      expenses related to a terminated merger, net unrealized mark-to-market
      gains associated with non-qualifying hedges, impairment charges and an
      Indonesian project gain. 

(c) 

Includes
      net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses associated with
      non-qualifying hedges. 

(d) 

Includes
      impairment and restructuring charges and net unrealized mark-to-market
      losses associated with non-qualifying hedges. 

(e) 

Includes
      the net change in unbilled sales. 

(f) 

Winter
      season includes November and December of the current year and January to
      March of the following year (for 2008, through February 26,
      2009). 

Item
7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations 

This
discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements contained herein.  In the discussion of Results
of Operations below, all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the
prior year. 

Overview 

FPL
Group is one of the nation's largest providers of electricity-related
services.  It has two principal operating subsidiaries, FPL and
NextEra Energy Resources.  FPL serves more than 8.7 million people
throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida.  NextEra
Energy Resources, FPL Group's competitive energy subsidiary, produces
electricity primarily using natural gas, wind and nuclear
resources.  Together, FPL's and NextEra Energy Resources' generating
assets represented approximately 39,000 mw of capacity at December 31,
2008.  See Item 2  -  Generating
Facilities.  Another of FPL Group's operating subsidiaries, FPL
FiberNet, provides fiber-optic services to FPL, telecommunications companies and
other customers throughout Florida. 

27 

FPL
obtains its operating revenues primarily through the sale of electricity to
retail customers at rates established as part of the 2005 rate agreement and
through cost recovery clause mechanisms.  See
Note 1   Revenues and Rates.  Over the last ten years,
FPL's average annual customer growth has been 2.1%.  However,
beginning in 2007, FPL has experienced a slowdown in retail customer growth and
a decline in non-weather related usage per retail customer.  Retail
customer growth in 2008 was 0.3%, although during the fourth quarter of 2008 FPL
experienced a decline in customer accounts of 0.2%.  FPL believes that
the economic slowdown, the downturn in the housing market and the credit crisis
that have affected the country and the state of Florida have contributed to the
slowdown in customer growth and to the decline in non-weather related usage per
retail customer.  In 2008, FPL experienced an increase in inactive
accounts (accounts with installed meters without corresponding customer names)
and in low-usage customers (customers using less than 200 kwh per month), which
have contributed to the decline in retail customer growth and non-weather
related usage per retail customer.  In November 2008, FPL notified the
FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate proceeding in March 2009.  In
the notification, FPL stated that it expects to request an $800 million to $950
million annual increase in base rates beginning on January 1, 2010 and an
additional annual base rate increase beginning on January 1,
2011.  These amounts exclude the effects of depreciation, which depend
in part on the results of a detailed depreciation study that FPL is currently
finalizing.  Further, FPL expects to request that the FPSC continue to
allow FPL to use the mechanism for recovery of the revenue requirements of any
new power plant approved pursuant to the Siting Act that was established in
FPL's 2005 rate agreement.  Hearings on the base rate proceeding are
expected during the third quarter of 2009 and a final decision is expected by
the end of 2009.  The final decision may approve rates that are
different from those that FPL will request.  FPL's business strategy
is to provide customers clean, reliable energy at rates among the lowest in the
state and nation. 

NextEra
Energy Resources is in the competitive energy business with the majority of its
operating revenues derived from wholesale electricity sales.  Its
business strategy is to maximize the value of its current portfolio, expand its
U.S. market-leading wind position and build its portfolio through asset
acquisitions.  NextEra Energy Resources plans to add a total of 7,000
mw to 9,000 mw of new wind generation over the 2008 to 2012 period, of which
approximately 1,300 mw were added in 2008.  NextEra Energy Resources
expects to add approximately 1,100 mw in 2009, of which approximately 480 mw are
either under construction or have obtained applicable internal approvals for
construction.  In addition, NextEra Energy Resources intends to pursue
opportunities for new solar generating facilities.  The wind and solar
expansions are subject to, among other things, continued public policy support,
which includes, but is not limited to, support for the construction and
availability of sufficient transmission facilities and capacity, and access to
reasonable capital and credit markets.  If capital and credit market
conditions change, this could alter spending plans at NextEra Energy
Resources. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' market is diversified by region as well as by fuel
source.  NextEra Energy Resources sells a large percentage of its
expected output to hedge against price volatility.  Consequently, if
NextEra Energy Resources' plants do not perform as expected, NextEra Energy
Resources could be required to purchase power at potentially higher market
prices to meet its contractual obligations.  NextEra Energy Resources'
energy marketing and trading business is focused on managing commodity price
risk and extracting maximum value from its assets. 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries segregate into two categories unrealized
mark-to-market gains and losses on energy derivative transactions which are used
to manage commodity price risk.  The first category, referred to as
trading activities, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded
positions entered into to take advantage of market price movements and to
optimize the value of generation assets and related contracts.  The
second category, referred to as non-qualifying hedges, represents the net
unrealized effect of derivative transactions entered into as economic hedges
(but which do not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended) and the ineffective
portion of transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges.  In
addition, at FPL substantially all changes in the fair value of energy
derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until
the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed
through the fuel clause or the capacity clause. 

FPL
Group's management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings)
internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance, for reporting of
results to the Board of Directors and as inputs in determining whether
performance targets are met for performance-based compensation under FPL Group's
employee incentive compensation plans.  FPL Group also uses adjusted
earnings when communicating its earnings outlook to
investors.  Adjusted earnings exclude the unrealized mark-to-market
effect of non-qualifying hedges and other than temporary impairment (OTTI)
losses on securities held in NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear decommissioning
funds, net of the reversal of previously recognized OTTI losses on securities
sold and losses on securities where price recovery was deemed unlikely
(collectively, OTTI reversals) and, in 2006 also excluded merger-related
costs.  FPL Group's management believes adjusted earnings provide a
more meaningful representation of the company's fundamental earnings
power.  Although the excluded amounts are properly included in the
determination of net income in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, management believes that the amount and/or nature of such items make
period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially
confusing. 

28 

In
February 2009, the Recovery Act was signed into law.  It includes
approximately $787 billion in tax incentives and new spending, a portion of
which relates to renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy
reliability.  The Recovery Act includes, among other things,
provisions that allow companies building wind facilities the option to choose
between three investment cost recovery mechanisms: (i) PTCs which were extended
for wind facilities through 2012, (ii) investment tax credits of 30% of the cost
for qualifying wind facilities placed in service prior to 2013, or (iii) an
election to receive a cash grant of 30% of the cost of qualifying wind
facilities placed in service in 2009 or 2010, or if construction began prior to
December 31, 2010 and the wind facility is placed in service prior to
2013.  An election to receive a cash grant of 30%, in lieu of the 30%
investment tax credit allowable under present law, also applies to the cost of
qualifying solar facilities placed in service in either 2009 or 2010, or if
construction began prior to December 31, 2010 and the solar facility is
placed in service prior to 2017.  In addition, 50% bonus depreciation
was extended on most types of property placed in service in 2009, and certain
property placed in service in 2010.  FPL Group and FPL are in the
process of evaluating the effect of the Recovery Act on their
businesses. 

Results
of Operations 

Summary    Presented below is
a summary of net income (loss) by reportable segment (see
Note 16): 

The
decrease in 2008 in FPL's results reflects lower retail customer usage, higher
depreciation and interest expenses and provisions taken in 2008 for regulatory
matters, partly offset by a retail base rate increase associated with Turkey
Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial operation, lower O M expenses
and higher other revenues and AFUDC  -  equity.  FPL's
2007 improved results benefited from a retail base rate increase associated with
Turkey Point Unit No. 5 and retail customer growth, partly offset by higher
O M and depreciation and amortization expenses recovered through base rates,
a slight decline in retail customer usage and lower interest income on
underrecovered fuel and storm costs.  Disallowed storm costs, net of
certain interest, reduced 2006 net income by approximately $27
million. 

NextEra
Energy Resources  2008 and 2007 results reflect additional earnings from the
existing portfolio, from new investments and from full energy and capacity
requirements services and trading, partially offset by higher expenses to
support the growth in the business.  NextEra Energy Resources' results
in 2007 also reflect higher interest expense and the absence of an approximately
$97 million gain ($63 million after-tax) recorded in 2006 resulting from a court
judgment relating to an Indonesian project that was suspended in
1998.  In addition, FPL Group's and NextEra Energy Resources  net
income for 2008 and 2006 reflects net unrealized after-tax gains from
non-qualifying hedges of $170 million and $92 million, respectively, while 2007
net income reflects net unrealized after-tax losses from such hedges of $86
million.  The change in unrealized mark-to-market activity is
primarily attributable to changes in forward power and natural gas prices, as
well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized mark-to-market
gains/losses as the underlying transactions are realized.  As a
general rule, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category is offset by
decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in
the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under generally
accepted accounting principles.  In 2008, 2007 and 2006, NextEra
Energy Resources recorded $82 million, $6 million and $1 million, respectively,
of after-tax OTTI losses on securities held in NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear
decommissioning funds.  In 2008, NextEra Energy Resources had
approximately $6 million after-tax of OTTI reversals; there were no such OTTI
reversals in 2007 or 2006. 

Results
for Corporate and Other in 2008 reflect higher interest expense offset by
additional consolidating income tax adjustments.  Results for
Corporate and Other in 2007 reflect lower interest costs and higher interest
income, partly offset by lower federal and state tax
benefits.  Results for Corporate and Other in 2006 reflect a $98
million ($60 million after-tax) impairment charge related to FPL FiberNet's
metro market assets as a result of significant changes in the business climate
in which FPL FiberNet operates and $14 million of after-tax merger costs
associated with the proposed merger between FPL Group and Constellation Energy
Group, Inc. (Constellation Energy), which was terminated in October
2006.  See Note 5   Corporate and Other for FPL FiberNet
impairment charges and Note 16 for segment information. 

FPL
Group's effective income tax rate for all periods presented reflects PTCs for
wind projects at NextEra Energy Resources.  PTCs can significantly
affect FPL Group's effective income tax rate depending on the amount of pretax
income and wind generation.  See Note 1   Income Taxes,
Note 6 and Note 11   Sale of Differential Membership
Interests. 

29 

FPL    FPL's net income for
2008, 2007 and 2006 was $789 million, $836 million and $802 million,
respectively, a decrease in 2008 of $47 million and an increase in 2007 of $34
million.  The decrease in 2008 reflects lower retail customer usage,
higher depreciation and interest expenses and provisions taken in 2008 for
regulatory matters, partly offset by a retail base rate increase associated with
Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial operation, lower O M expenses
and higher other revenues and AFUDC  -  equity.  FPL's
2007 results benefited from a retail base rate increase associated with Turkey
Point Unit No. 5 and retail customer growth.  These factors were
partly offset by higher O M and depreciation and amortization expenses
recovered through base rates, a slight decline in usage per retail customer and
lower interest income on underrecovered fuel and storm
costs.  Disallowed storm costs, net of interest income recorded on
2005 storm restoration costs approved for recovery by the FPSC, reduced FPL's
2006 net income by approximately $27 million.  In 2006, when
considering FPL's petition to recover 2005 storm costs, the FPSC applied a
different standard for recovery of 2005 costs than was used for recovery of the
2004 storm costs.  This resulted in certain adjustments and
disallowances of storm costs that FPL sought to recover. 

FPL's
current retail base rates were approved by the FPSC in 2005 and are expected to
be in effect through December 31, 2009.  The 2005 rate agreement
provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term of the
agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any power
plant approved pursuant to the Siting Act that achieves commercial operation
during the term of the 2005 rate agreement.  Retail base rates
increased in 2007 when Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commenced commercial operation on
May 1, 2007.  FPL expects that retail base revenues will increase
approximately $65 million in 2009 when retail base rates are changed pursuant to
the 2005 rate agreement to reflect the placement in service of two West County
Energy Center units, which is expected to occur by the third quarter of 2009 and
fourth quarter of 2009.  The 2005 rate agreement has a revenue sharing
mechanism, whereby revenues from retail base operations in excess of certain
thresholds will be shared with customers on the basis of two-thirds refunded to
customers and one-third retained by FPL.  Revenues from retail base
operations in excess of a second, higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100%
to customers.  The revenue sharing threshold and cap are adjusted each
year.  For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
revenues from retail base operations did not exceed the thresholds for those
years and FPL does not expect 2009 revenues to exceed the
thresholds.  See Note 1   Revenues and Rates for information on
the calculation of the threshold and cap and for information on FPL's regulatory
ROE. 

In
November 2008, FPL notified the FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate
proceeding in March 2009.  In the notification, FPL stated that it
expects to request an $800 million to $950 million annual increase in base rates
beginning on January 1, 2010 and an additional annual base rate increase
beginning on January 1, 2011.  These amounts exclude the effects
of depreciation, which depend in part on the results of a detailed depreciation
study that FPL is currently finalizing.  Further, FPL expects to
request that the FPSC continue to allow FPL to use the mechanism for recovery of
the revenue requirements of any new power plant approved pursuant to the Siting
Act that was established in FPL's 2005 rate agreement.  Hearings on
the base rate proceeding are expected during the third quarter of 2009 and a
final decision is expected by the end of 2009.  The final decision may
approve rates that are different from those that FPL will request. 

FPL's
operating revenues consisted of the following: 

For the
year ended December 31, 2008, an increase in the average number of
customers of 0.3% increased retail base revenues by approximately $9 million
while a 2.7% decrease in usage per retail customer, reflecting weather
conditions and other factors, decreased retail base revenues by approximately
$95 million.  Partly offsetting the usage decrease was an extra day of
sales in 2008, as it was a leap year.  In addition, a base rate
increase resulting from Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial
operation on May 1, 2007 increased retail base revenues by approximately $28
million.  FPL experienced a decline in retail customer growth in the
latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 as well as a decline in non-weather
related retail customer usage, which FPL believes is reflective of the economic
slowdown and housing crisis that has affected the country and the state of
Florida.  FPL is unable to predict if growth in customers and
non-weather related customer usage will return to previous trends .  

For the
year ended December 31, 2007, an increase in the average number of
customers of 2.0% increased retail base revenues by approximately $71
million.  During this period, usage per retail customer decreased
0.4%.  This usage decrease, as well as other factors, decreased retail
base revenues by approximately $18 million.  In addition, the base
rate increase resulting from Turkey Point Unit No. 5 commencing commercial
operation on May 1, 2007 increased 2007 retail base revenues by
approximately $86 million. 

30 

Revenues
from fuel and other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs, such as
franchise fees, revenue taxes and storm-related surcharges do not significantly
affect net income; however, underrecovery or overrecovery of such costs can
significantly affect FPL Group's and FPL's operating cash
flows.  Fluctuations in fuel cost recovery revenues are primarily
driven by changes in fuel and energy charges which are included in fuel,
purchased power and interchange expense in the consolidated statements of
income, as well as by changes in energy sales.  Fluctuations in
revenues from other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs are primarily
driven by changes in storm-related surcharges, capacity charges, franchise fee
costs, the impact of changes in O M and depreciation expenses on the
underlying cost recovery clause, as well as changes in energy
sales.  Capacity charges and franchise fee costs are included in fuel,
purchased power and interchange and taxes other than income taxes, respectively,
in the consolidated statements of income. 

FPL uses
a risk management fuel procurement program which was approved by the FPSC at the
program's inception.  The FPSC reviews the program activities and
results for prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel
costs.  The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by
locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements.  The
current regulatory asset for the change in fair value of derivative instruments
used in the fuel procurement program amounted to approximately $1,109 million
and $117 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  The increase in fuel revenues in 2008 reflects
approximately $230 million related to a higher average fuel factor partly offset
by approximately $190 million attributable to lower energy sales.  The
decrease in fuel revenues in 2007 reflects approximately $484 million related to
a lower average fuel factor partly offset by approximately $73 million
attributable to higher energy sales. 

In May
2007, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL issued $652 million aggregate principal
amount of storm-recovery bonds primarily for the after-tax equivalent of the
total of FPL's unrecovered balance of 2004 storm restoration costs, the 2005
storm restoration costs and approximately $200 million to reestablish FPL's
storm and property insurance reserve.  The storm-recovery bonds,
including interest and bond issuance costs, are being repaid through a surcharge
to retail customers.  Prior to the issuance of these storm-recovery
bonds, FPL had been recovering from retail customers, since February 2005, the
2004 storm restoration costs through a storm damage surcharge.  Both
the revenues from the 2004 storm damage surcharge and the storm-recovery bonds
surcharge are included in other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs and
amounted to approximately $97 million, $94 million and $151 million for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  See
Note 9   FPL.  Revenues from other cost recovery clauses and
pass-through costs also declined in 2007 due to the absence in 2007 of the
recovery of a portion of litigation costs that FPL had been recovering since
2002 through the capacity clause.  See discussion below of
depreciation and amortization expense.  Beginning in 2009, revenues
from the nuclear cost recovery rule will be included in revenues from other cost
recovery clauses and pass-through costs. 

The
major components of FPL's fuel, purchased power and interchange expense are as
follows: 

The
increase in fuel and energy charges in 2008 reflects higher fuel and energy
prices of approximately $224 million partly offset by approximately $194 million
attributable to lower energy sales.  The increase in fuel and energy
charges in 2007 reflects higher fuel and energy prices of approximately $532
million and approximately $65 million attributable to higher energy
sales.  At December 31, 2008, approximately $256 million of
retail fuel costs were deferred pending collection from retail customers in a
subsequent period.  The increase from December 31, 2007 to
December 31, 2008 in deferred clause and franchise expenses and the
decrease in deferred clause and franchise revenues (current and noncurrent,
collectively) on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets totaled
approximately $110 million and negatively affected FPL Group's and FPL's cash
flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31,
2008. 

31 

FPL's
O M expenses decreased $16 million in 2008 reflecting lower insurance,
employee benefit and distribution costs of approximately $47 million, $11
million and $10 million, respectively.  These decreases were partly
offset by higher nuclear generation, fossil generation, transmission and
customer service costs of approximately $21 million, $4 million, $3 million and
$20 million, respectively, as well as a reserve for ongoing regulatory
matters.  The decline in insurance costs was primarily due to the
termination by mutual agreement of an environmental insurance
policy.  The decline in employee benefit costs reflects a higher
pension credit as well as lower benefits due to declining market conditions,
partly offset by higher medical costs.  The decline in distribution
costs reflects cost reduction efforts and efficiencies as well as reduced work
load due to the decline in customer growth partly offset by severance costs
incurred in 2008.  The increase in nuclear generation costs reflects
plant improvement initiatives to ensure long-term reliable
operations.  The fossil generation increase reflects costs associated
with plant maintenance, while the transmission increase reflects additional
improvement activities.  The customer service cost increase is
primarily due to higher uncollectible accounts.  Other changes in
O M expenses were primarily driven by pass-through costs which did not
significantly affect net income.  Management expects O M expenses
in 2009 to exceed the 2008 level primarily due to the absence of the
environmental insurance policy termination as well as higher expected nuclear,
fossil generation, transmission, customer service and employee benefit
costs. 

FPL's
O M expenses increased $80 million in 2007 reflecting higher nuclear, fossil
generation, distribution, customer service and employee benefits costs of
approximately $23 million, $11 million, $11 million, $7 million and $17 million,
respectively.  The increase in nuclear costs reflects plant
improvement initiatives to ensure long-term reliable operations while the fossil
generation increase reflects costs associated with placing Turkey Point Unit No.
5 in service as well as costs associated with plant repair and a performance
payment made to an owner of a jointly-owned plant.  The distribution
increase reflects higher storm preparation costs partly offset by lower new
service account costs reflecting a decline in housing starts in FPL's
territory.  The customer service increase reflects staffing increases
related to customer growth and higher uncollectible accounts.  Other
changes in O M expenses were primarily driven by pass-through costs which
did not significantly affect net income. 

Depreciation
and amortization expense in 2008 increased $23 million, reflecting higher
depreciation on transmission and distribution facilities (collectively,
approximately $20 million) and higher depreciation on fossil generation assets
of $10 million, primarily Turkey Point Unit No. 5 which was placed in
service in May 2007.  In addition, depreciation on nuclear assets was
higher by approximately $4 million primarily due to the steam generator and
reactor vessel head replacements at St. Lucie Unit No. 2, which were
substantially completed by late 2007.  The remaining change in 2008
depreciation and amortization expense is primarily due to the absence of
amortization of software and other property that has been fully
amortized.  Depreciation and amortization expense in 2007 decreased
$14 million.  Depreciation and amortization expense in 2006 included
approximately $45 million of amortization of litigation costs that FPL had been
recovering through cost recovery clauses over a five-year period that began
January 1, 2002 and ended December 31, 2006.  Depreciation
and amortization expense in 2007 reflects higher depreciation on transmission
and distribution facilities (approximately $25 million) to support customer
growth and demand and depreciation on Turkey Point Unit No. 5
(approximately $18 million).  The remaining change in depreciation and
amortization expense is primarily due to lower amortization of software that has
been fully amortized. 

Taxes
other than income taxes increased $41 million in 2008, primarily due to changes
in franchise fees and revenue taxes, which are pass-through costs, and higher
property taxes ($15 million), reflecting growth in plant in service
balances.  The increase in franchise fees was primarily driven by
higher average franchise rates.  Taxes other than income taxes
decreased $13 million in 2007 primarily due to lower franchise fees and revenue
taxes reflecting lower retail base and fuel and other cost recovery clause
revenues, which are discussed above under the operating revenue
table.  Taxes other than income taxes in 2007 also reflect lower
property taxes of approximately $2 million primarily due to a property tax
reduction enacted by the Florida legislature partly offset by higher property
taxes due to growth in plant in service balances. 

Interest
expense for 2008 reflects higher average debt balances partly offset by a
decline in average interest rates of approximately 34 basis
points.  Interest expense for 2007 increased primarily due to higher
average debt balances.  Interest expense on storm-recovery bonds, as
well as certain other interest expense (collectively, clause interest), are
essentially pass-through amounts and do not significantly affect net income, as
the clause interest is recovered either under cost recovery clause mechanisms or
through the storm-recovery bond surcharge.  Clause interest for 2008,
2007 and 2006 amounted to approximately $44 million, $32 million and $10
million, respectively. For both 2008 and 2007, higher allowance for borrowed
funds used during construction (see AFUDC  -  equity explanation below)
partly offset the increase in interest expense. 

The
increase in AFUDC   equity for 2008 is primarily attributable to additional
AFUDC   equity on three natural gas-fired combined-cycle units of approximately
1,220 mw each at FPL's West County Energy Center in western Palm Beach County,
Florida, partly offset by the absence of AFUDC   equity on Turkey Point Unit
No. 5, which was placed in service in May 2007 and the absence of AFUDC  
equity on the steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement projects at
St. Lucie Unit No. 2, which were substantially completed by late
2007.  The increase in AFUDC in 2007 is primarily attributable to
additional AFUDC   equity on two of the West County Energy Center units, the
steam generator and reactor vessel head replacement projects at St. Lucie Unit
No. 2 and nuclear spent fuel storage projects, partially offset by lower
AFUDC on Turkey Point Unit No. 5. 

32 

Interest
income declined in both 2008 and 2007 reflecting the cessation of interest on
FPL's unrecovered balance of the storm reserve deficiency, which balance was
collected upon the issuance of the storm-recovery bonds in May 2007, partly
offset by higher interest income earned on higher average cash
balances. 

FPL
currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to
wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for
other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  The FERC has
jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale
transactions.  In 2008, operating revenues from wholesale and
industrial customers combined represented less than 4% of FPL's total operating
revenues.  Various states, other than Florida, have enacted
legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow
retail customers to choose their electricity supplier.  Management
believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the
retail electric industry in Florida in the near future.  If the basis
of regulation for some or all of FPL's business changes from cost-based
regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off
unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or
refund.  Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation
assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to
assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  See
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   Regulatory Accounting. 

In 2007,
the FPSC denied FPL's need petition for two ultra super critical pulverized coal
generating units in Glades County, Florida.  In December 2008, the
FPSC approved the recovery of approximately $34 million of pre-construction
costs associated with these units over a five-year period beginning January
2010. 

FPL is
currently constructing three natural gas-fired combined-cycle units of
approximately 1,220 mw each at its West County Energy Center, which units are
expected to be placed in service by the third quarter of 2009, fourth quarter of
2009 and mid-2011.  In addition, FPL is in the process of adding
approximately 400 mw of baseload capacity at its existing nuclear units at St.
Lucie and Turkey Point, which additional capacity is projected to be placed in
service by the end of 2012.  In 2008, the FPSC approved FPL's plan to
modernize its Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants to high-efficiency natural
gas-fired units.  Each modernized plant is expected to provide
approximately 1,200 mw of capacity and be placed in service by 2013 and 2014,
respectively.  Siting Board approval is pending and is expected in
early 2010. 

In
March 2008, the FPSC approved FPL's need petition for two additional
nuclear units at its Turkey Point site with projected in-service dates between
2018 and 2020, which units are expected in the aggregate to add between 2,200 mw
and 3,040 mw of baseload capacity.  Additional approvals from other
regulatory agencies will be required later in the process.  The FPSC's
nuclear cost recovery rule provides for the recovery of prudently incurred
pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to the pretax AFUDC rate) on
construction costs for new nuclear capacity through levelized charges under the
capacity clause.  The same rule provides for the recovery of
construction costs, once the new capacity goes into service, through a base rate
increase.  In October 2008, the FPSC approved FPL's first annual
request under the nuclear cost recovery rule for recovery of pre-construction
costs associated with FPL's planned nuclear units and carrying charges on
construction costs associated with the addition of approximately 400 mw of
baseload capacity to FPL's existing nuclear units; substantially all of these
costs are still subject to a prudence review by the FPSC. 

In 2008,
the FPSC approved eligibility for recovery of prudently incurred costs for FPL's
proposed solar generating facilities through the environmental
clause.  The proposed solar generating facilities are expected to have
a capacity totaling 110 mw and to be placed into service by the end of
2010. 

NextEra Energy Resources   
NextEra Energy Resources  net income for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $915 million,
$540 million and $610 million, respectively, an increase in 2008 of $375 million
and a decrease in 2007 of $70 million.  The primary drivers, on an
after-tax basis, of these changes were as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      PTCs on wind projects but does not include allocation of interest expense
      or corporate general and administrative expenses.  See Note 1  
      Income Taxes.  Results from new projects are included in new
      investments during the first twelve months of operation.  A
      project's results are included in existing assets beginning with the
      thirteenth month of operation. 

(b) 

For
      discussion of derivative instruments, see Note 3 and
      Overview. 

33 

The
increase in NextEra Energy Resources  2008 results from new investments reflects
the addition of over 3,200 mw of wind and nuclear generation during or after
2007.  The increase in NextEra Energy Resources  2007 results from new
investments reflects the addition of over 3,400 mw of wind and nuclear
generation during or after 2006. 

In 2008,
results from NextEra Energy Resources  existing asset portfolio increased
primarily due to favorable market conditions in the NEPOOL, ERCOT and PJM
regions and higher wind resource partially offset by the impact of planned and
unplanned outages at the Seabrook nuclear facility and lower results from
NextEra Energy Resources  retail energy provider primarily due to unfavorable
commodity margins.  Results in 2008 in PJM benefited from a new
FERC-approved forward capacity market that began in
June 2007.  In 2007, NextEra Energy Resources  existing asset
portfolio benefited from improved market conditions in the NEPOOL and ERCOT
regions and the absence of a refueling outage at the Seabrook nuclear
facility.  This was partially offset by lower wind resource, by the
effect of the completion, in January 2007, of the amortization of deferred
income under a power purchase agreement related to a combined-cycle plant in the
NEPOOL region and by the reduction in the contracted capacity price at a
combined-cycle plant in the PJM region.  Results in the NEPOOL and PJM
regions also benefited from new FERC-approved forward capacity markets that
began in December 2006 and June 2007, respectively. 

NextEra
Energy Resources  2008 and 2007 financial results benefited from increased gains
from its full energy and capacity requirements services and trading
activities.  Full energy and capacity requirements services include
load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the
quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer, as well as
various ancillary services. 

The
increase in 2008 of restructuring activities and asset sales is primarily due to
a gain on the sale of development rights on a natural gas project while the
decrease in 2007 is primarily due to the absence of a $12 million after-tax gain
recorded in 2006 on the sale of wind development rights.  The decrease
in the Indonesian project gain reflects the absence of a $63 million after-tax
gain ($97 million pretax) recorded by NextEra Energy Resources in 2006 as the
result of a court judgment. 

In both
2008 and 2007, interest expense, differential membership costs and other
reflects increased costs due to growth of the business partially offset, in
2008, by certain state income tax benefits. 

In 2008
and 2006, NextEra Energy Resources recorded after-tax net unrealized
mark-to-market gains on non-qualifying hedges of approximately $170 million and
$92 million, respectively.  During 2007, NextEra Energy Resources
recorded after-tax net unrealized mark-to-market losses of approximately $86
million.  The change in unrealized mark-to-market activity for 2008
compared to 2007 is primarily attributable to decreased forward power and
natural gas prices, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized
mark-to-market losses as the underlying transactions were realized during
2008.  The change in unrealized mark-to-market activity for 2007
compared to 2006 is primarily attributable to increased forward power and
natural gas prices, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized
mark-to-market gains as the underlying transactions were realized during
2007.  In 2008, 2007 and 2006, NextEra Energy Resources recorded $82
million, $6 million and $1 million, respectively, of after-tax OTTI losses on
securities held in NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear decommissioning
funds.  In 2008, NextEra Energy Resources had approximately $6 million
after-tax of OTTI reversals; there were no such OTTI reversals in 2007 or
2006. 

Operating
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $1,096 million
primarily due to gains of $232 million on unrealized mark-to-market
non-qualifying hedge activity in 2008 compared to losses on such hedges of $342
million in 2007.  Excluding this mark-to-market activity, revenues
benefited from project additions, favorable market conditions in the NEPOOL,
ERCOT and PJM regions, and favorable wind and hydro resources partially offset
by nuclear planned and unplanned outages.  NextEra Energy Resources 
operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased $84
million reflecting $342 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses from
non-qualifying hedges compared to $496 million of gains on such hedges in
2006.  Excluding this mark-to-market activity, revenues benefited from
project additions, favorable market conditions in the NEPOOL and ERCOT regions,
the absence of a refueling outage at the Seabrook nuclear facility and increased
gains from its full energy and capacity requirements services, partially offset
by unfavorable wind resource. 

NextEra
Energy Resources  operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008
increased $522 million, reflecting $53 million of unrealized mark-to-market
gains from non-qualifying hedges compared to $198 million of gains on such
hedges in 2007.  Excluding these mark-to-market changes which are
reflected in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense in FPL Group's
consolidated statements of income, operating expenses increased primarily due to
project additions, higher fuel costs and higher corporate general and
administrative expenses to support the growth in the
business.  NextEra Energy Resources  operating expenses for the year
ended December 31, 2007 decreased $50 million, reflecting $198 million of
unrealized mark-to-market gains from non-qualifying hedges compared to $318
million of losses on such hedges in 2006.  Excluding these
mark-to-market changes, operating expenses increased primarily due to project
additions, higher fuel costs and higher corporate general and administrative
expenses to support the growth in the business. 

Equity
in earnings of equity method investees in 2008 increased $25 million due to
improved market conditions in the PJM region.  Equity in earnings of
equity method investees decreased $113 million in 2007 primarily due to the
absence of the $97 million Indonesian project gain discussed above and due to
the effect of the completion, in January 2007, of the amortization of deferred
income under a power purchase agreement related to a combined-cycle plant in the
NEPOOL region, partially offset by unrealized mark-to-market losses on
non-qualifying hedges of $26 million in 2006. 

34 

NextEra
Energy Resources  interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008
decreased $1 million.  Interest expense for 2007 increased $43 million
reflecting higher average debt balances to support growth in the business and
higher average interest rates.  Gains on disposal of assets  -  net in FPL Group's
consolidated statements of income for 2008 reflect an approximately $10 million
gain on the sale of development rights related to a natural gas project and $8
million of gains on sales of securities held in nuclear decommissioning funds
and in 2006 reflect a $20 million gain for the sale of wind development
rights. 

PTCs
from NextEra Energy Resources  wind projects are reflected in NextEra Energy
Resources  earnings.  PTCs are recognized as wind energy is generated
and sold based on a per kwh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state
statutes, and amounted to approximately $262 million, $219 million and $167
million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

In
September 2007, NextEra Energy Resources completed the acquisition of
Point Beach, a two-unit, 1,023 mw nuclear power plant located in Wisconsin
from Wisconsin Electric Power Company (We Energies).  NextEra Energy
Resources purchased the plant, including nuclear fuel, inventory and other
items, for a total of approximately $933 million.  All of the power
from Point Beach is being sold under a long-term power purchase contract to
We Energies through the current NRC license terms of 2030 for Unit No. 1
and 2033 for Unit No. 2.  NextEra Energy Resources is responsible
for management and operation of the plant, as well as for the ultimate
decommissioning of the facility, and received $390 million of decommissioning
funds at closing. 

NextEra
Energy Resources expects its future portfolio capacity growth to come primarily
from wind and solar development and from asset acquisitions.  NextEra
Energy Resources plans to add a total of 7,000 mw to 9,000 mw of new wind
generation over the 2008 to 2012 period, of which approximately 1,300 mw were
added in 2008.  NextEra Energy Resources expects to add approximately
1,100 mw in 2009, of which approximately 480 mw are either under construction or
have obtained applicable internal approvals for construction.  In
addition, NextEra Energy Resources intends to pursue opportunities for new solar
generating facilities.  The wind and solar expansions are subject to,
among other things, continued public policy support, which includes, but is not
limited to, support for the construction and availability of sufficient
transmission facilities and capacity, and access to reasonable capital and
credit markets. 

In July
2008, the PUCT approved a $4.92 billion transmission grid improvement program
that would add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver wind power
from the CREZ in west Texas and the Texas Panhandle to the Dallas/Fort Worth
area and other population centers in Texas.  In January 2009, Lone
Star Transmission, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources,
was allocated $565 million in projects by the PUCT under the CREZ
program.  The January 2009 determination is subject to, among other
things, reconsideration, appeal and receipt of all applicable regulatory
approvals. 

Competitive
wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary by geographic
region.  Revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based
on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary
services.  Some of the factors affecting success in these markets
include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the
price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar and hydro
resources (weather conditions), competition from new sources of generation,
effective risk management, demand growth and exposure to legal and regulatory
changes. 

Expanded
competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both
opportunities and risks for NextEra Energy Resources.  Opportunities
exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the
construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in
competitive markets.  NextEra Energy Resources seeks to reduce its
market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well
as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity
output of its plants.  The combination of new wind projects, expected
increase in contribution from existing merchant assets and asset acquisitions
are expected to be the key drivers supporting NextEra Energy Resources  growth
over the next few years. 

NextEra
Energy Resources  earnings are subject to variability due to, among other
things, operational performance, commodity price exposure, counterparty
performance, weather conditions and project restructuring
activities.  NextEra Energy Resources  exposure to commodity price
risk is reduced by the degree of contract coverage obtained for 2009 and
2010.  Therefore, if NextEra Energy Resources  plants do not perform
as expected, NextEra Energy Resources could be required to purchase power at
potentially higher market prices to meet its contractual
obligations. 

NextEra
Energy Resources  results are affected by fluctuations in weather.  In
addition to the effect of temperature, which is reflected in commodity prices
and demand, changes in weather affect production levels of the wind portfolio as
well as the hydro units in Maine and the solar units in
California.  In managing its exposure to commodity prices, NextEra
Energy Resources is dependent upon its counterparties to perform under their
contractual obligations.  NextEra Energy Resources actively manages
the trade-off between market risk and credit risk, as well as exposure with
individual counterparties as a function of their
creditworthiness.  Substantially all of NextEra Energy Resources  2009
contracted revenues are with investment grade counterparties. 

35 

Corporate and Other   
Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of interest expense, the operating
results of FPL FiberNet and other business activities as well as corporate
interest income and expenses.  Corporate and Other allocates interest
expense to NextEra Energy Resources based on a deemed capital structure at
NextEra Energy Resources of 50% debt for operating projects and 100% debt for
projects under construction.  For these purposes, the deferred credit
associated with differential membership interests sold by a NextEra Energy
Resources subsidiary in December 2007 is included with debt.  Each
subsidiary's income taxes are calculated based on the "separate return method,"
except that tax benefits that could not be used on a separate return basis, but
are used on the consolidated tax return, are recorded by the subsidiary that
generated the tax benefits.  Any remaining consolidated income tax
benefits or detriments are recorded at Corporate and Other.  The major
components of Corporate and Other's results, on an after-tax basis, are as
follows: 

The
increase in interest expense in 2008 reflects additional debt outstanding partly
offset by lower average interest rates of approximately 91 basis
points.  Interest expense decreased in 2007 primarily due to lower
average debt balances.  Interest income in 2008 reflects lower
interest rates on temporary investments offset by additional earnings on
energy-related loans made to third parties by FPL Group Capital
subsidiaries.  In the latter half of 2008, temporary investments were
accumulated in response to volatility and disruption in the credit and capital
markets while in 2007 temporary investments had been accumulated to purchase
Point Beach.  Interest income in 2007 reflects earnings on temporary
investments accumulated to purchase Point Beach as well as interest recorded on
unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with FIN 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109."  For
discussion of FPL FiberNet's impairment charges, see Note 5   Corporate and
Other.  The 2006 merger costs represent costs associated with the
proposed merger between FPL Group and Constellation Energy, which was terminated
in October 2006.  The federal and state tax benefits are primarily due
to NextEra Energy Resources' growth throughout the United States and other
consolidating income tax adjustments.  Other includes all other
corporate income and expenses, as well as other business
activities. 

Liquidity
and Capital Resources 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, require funds to support and grow
their businesses.  These funds are used for working capital, capital
expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, to pay
maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, to redeem or repurchase
outstanding debt or equity securities.  It is anticipated that these
requirements will be satisfied through a combination of internally generated
funds, borrowings, and the issuance, from time to time, of debt and equity
securities, consistent with FPL Group's and FPL's objective of maintaining, on a
long-term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade
credit rating.  FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group Capital access the credit and
capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not
satisfied by operating cash flows.  The inability of FPL Group, FPL
and FPL Group Capital to maintain their current credit ratings could affect
their ability to raise short- and long-term capital, their cost of capital and
the execution of their respective financing strategies, and could require the
posting of additional collateral under certain agreements. 

The
global and domestic credit and capital markets have been experiencing
unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption.  This has
significantly affected the cost and available sources of liquidity in the
financial markets.  FPL and FPL Group Capital have continued to have
access to commercial paper and short- and long-term credit and capital
markets.  If capital and credit market conditions change, this could
alter spending plans at FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. 

36 

Available Liquidity    At
December 31, 2008, FPL Group's total net available liquidity was
approximately $4.6 billion, of which FPL's portion was approximately $1.6
billion.  The components of each company's net available liquidity at
December 31, 2008 were as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Provide
      for the issuance of letters of credit up to $6.5 billion ($2.5 billion for
      FPL) and are available to support FPL's and FPL Group Capital's commercial
      paper programs and short-term borrowings and to provide additional
      liquidity in the event of a loss to the companies' or their subsidiaries'
      operating facilities (including, in the case of FPL, a transmission and
      distribution property loss), as well as for general corporate
      purposes.  FPL's bank revolving lines of credit are also
      available to support the purchase of $633 million of pollution control,
      solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds (tax exempt
      bonds) in the event they are tendered by individual bond holders and not
      remarketed prior to maturity.  FPL's and FPL Group Capital's
      bank revolving lines of credit include commitments of approximately $27
      million and $83 million, respectively, from Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB
      (Lehman).  In September 2008, Lehman's parent, Lehman Brothers
      Holdings Inc., filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
      Bankruptcy Code.  As of late January 2009, Lehman must receive a
      notice of non-objection from the Office of Thrift Supervision before
      funding any commercial loan commitment, including this
      commitment. 

(b) 

$17
      million of FPL's and $40 million of FPL Group Capital's bank revolving
      lines of credit expire in 2012.  The remaining portion of bank
      revolving lines of credit for FPL and FPL Group Capital expire in
      2013. 

At
February 26, 2009, 38 banks participate in FPL's and FPL Group Capital's credit
facilities, with no one bank providing more than 8% of the total in either
credit facility.  In order for FPL Group Capital to borrow under the
terms of its credit facility, FPL Group (which guarantees the payment of FPL
Group Capital's credit facility pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement) is
required to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization that does
not exceed a stated ratio.  The FPL Group Capital credit facility also
contains default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other
things, failure of FPL Group to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total
capitalization at or below the specified ratio.  Similarly, in order
for FPL to borrow under the terms of its credit facility and revolving term loan
facility, FPL is required to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total
capitalization that does not exceed a stated ratio.  The FPL credit
facility and revolving term loan facility also contain default and related
acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of FPL to
maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization at or below the
specified ratio.  At December 31, 2008, each of FPL Group and FPL
was in compliance with its respective required ratio. 

In
addition, at December 31, 2008, FPL had the capacity to absorb up to
approximately $188 million in future prudently incurred storm restoration costs
without seeking recovery through a rate adjustment from the
FPSC.  Also, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy
Resources has established a $100 million letter of credit facility which expires
in 2017 and serves as security for certain obligations under commodity hedge
agreements entered into by the subsidiary. 

In
January 2009, FPL Group entered into an agreement under which FPL Group may
offer and sell, from time to time, FPL Group common stock having a gross sales
price of up to $400 million.  As of February 26, 2009, FPL Group
had received proceeds of approximately $40 million through the issuance of
common stock under this agreement consisting of 760,000 shares at an average
price of $52.10 per share. 

Shelf Registration    In
September 2006, FPL Group, FPL Group Capital, FPL and certain affiliated trusts
filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for an unspecified amount of
securities.  The amount of securities issuable by the companies is
established from time to time by their respective board of
directors.  As of February 26, 2009, securities that may be
issued under the registration statement, as subsequently amended, which became
effective upon filing, include, depending on the registrant, senior debt
securities, subordinated debt securities, first mortgage bonds, preferred trust
securities, common stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units,
preferred stock and guarantees related to certain of those
securities.  At February 26, 2009, FPL Group and FPL Group
Capital had $3.5 billion (issuable by either or both of them up to such
aggregate amount) of board-authorized available capacity, and FPL had $900
million of board-authorized available capacity. 

37 

Credit Ratings    At
February 26, 2009, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (Moody's), Standard
  Poor's Ratings Services (S P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) had assigned
the following credit ratings to FPL Group, FPL and FPL Group
Capital: 

Moody's  (a)  

S P  (a)  

Fitch  (a)  

FPL
      Group:  (b)  

Corporate credit
      rating 

A2 

A 

A 

FPL:
       (b)  

Corporate credit
      rating 

A1 

A 

A 

First mortgage
      bonds 

Aa3 

A 

AA- 

Pollution control, solid waste
      disposal and industrial development revenue bonds 

Aa3/VMIG-1 

A 

A+ 

Commercial
paper 

P-1 

A-1 

F1 

FPL
      Group Capital:  (b)  

Corporate credit
      rating 

A2 

A 

A 

Debentures 

A2 

A- 

A 

Junior subordinated
      debentures 

A3 

BBB+ 

A- 

Commercial
paper 

P-1 

A-1 

F1 

____________________ 

(a) 

A
      security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities
      and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  The
      rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning
      rating organization. 

(b) 

The
      outlook indicated by each of Moody's, S P and Fitch is
      stable. 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, have no credit rating downgrade
triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding
debt.  A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable
debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit
facilities maintained by FPL and FPL Group Capital, the maintenance of a
specific minimum credit rating is not a condition to drawing upon those credit
facilities.  Commitment fees and interest rates on loans under the
credit facilities' agreements are tied to credit ratings.  A ratings
downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of
commercial paper and other short-term debt issuances and additional or
replacement credit facilities, and could result in the requirement that FPL
Group subsidiaries, including FPL, post collateral under certain agreements,
including those related to fuel procurement, power sales and purchases, nuclear
decommissioning funding, debt-related reserves and trading
activities.  FPL's and FPL Group Capital's bank revolving lines of
credit are available to support these potential requirements.  See
Available Liquidity above. 

Cash Flow    The changes
in cash and cash equivalents are summarized as follows: 

FPL
Group's cash and cash equivalents increased for the year ended December 31,
2008, reflecting cash generated by operating activities and net issuances of
both long- and short-term debt.  These inflows were partially offset
by capital investments by FPL and NextEra Energy Resources, the payment of
common stock dividends to FPL Group shareholders and the funding of a $500
million loan. 

FPL
Group's cash flows from operating activities for the year ended
December 31, 2008 reflect cash generated by net income, the receipt of
distributions from equity method investees, the underrecovery by FPL of cost
recovery clause costs and an increase in fuel inventory at NextEra Energy
Resources. 

FPL
Group's cash flows from investing activities for the year ended
December 31, 2008 reflect capital investments, including nuclear fuel
purchases, of approximately $2.4 billion by FPL to expand and enhance its
electric system and generating facilities to continue to provide reliable
service to meet the power needs of present and future customers and investments
in independent power projects of approximately $2.8 billion, and the funding of
a $500 million loan by an FPL Group Capital subsidiary to a third party for an
energy-related project.  FPL Group's cash flows from investing
activities also include amounts related to the purchase and sale of restricted
securities held in the special use funds, including the reinvestment of fund
earnings and new contributions by NextEra Energy Resources, as well as other
investment activity, primarily at FPL Group Capital. 

38 

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, FPL Group generated proceeds from
financing activities, net of related issuance costs, of approximately $4.7
billion, including a net increase in short-term debt of $848 million (comprised
of $917 million increase at FPL Group Capital and $69 million decrease at FPL)
and the following long-term debt issuances and borrowings: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Partially
      amortizing with a balloon payment at
maturity. 

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, FPL Group paid approximately $2.1 billion
in connection with financing activities, including $506 million for FPL Group
Capital debt maturities, $327 million for a NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary
construction term loan maturity, $200 million for maturing FPL first mortgage
bonds, $284 million principal repayments on NextEra Energy Resources subsidiary
debt, $41 million principal repayment on FPL subsidiary storm-recovery bonds and
$714 million for the payment of common stock dividends to FPL Group
shareholders.  In January 2009, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of
NextEra Energy Resources borrowed Canadian $94.6 million (US $75.4 million)
under a limited-recourse senior secured variable rate term loan agreement
maturing in 2023 and entered into an interest rate swap agreement to pay a fixed
rate of 2.5775%, plus applicable margin, to limit cash flow
exposure.  The proceeds from the loan were used to repay a portion of
the amount borrowed in June 2008 under the Canadian dollar denominated term loan
included in the table above.  Also, in January 2009, another indirect
wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources entered into an interest
rate swap agreement to pay a fixed rate of 2.68%, plus applicable margin, until
2016 on its $373 million variable rate limited-recourse senior secured note that
is partially amortizing with a balloon payment due in 2016.  This same
wholly-owned subsidiary entered into a second interest rate swap agreement to
pay a fixed rate of 3.725%, plus applicable margin, beginning in 2016 to limit
the cash flow exposure of refinancing the balloon payment of approximately $124
million due on this note in 2016.  Additionally, in January 2009, FPL
Group Capital borrowed $72 million under a variable rate term loan agreement
maturing in 2011. 

FPL
Group's cash and cash equivalents decreased for the year ended December 31,
2007, reflecting capital investments by FPL and NextEra Energy Resources, the
payment of common stock dividends to FPL Group shareholders and an increase in
customer receivables.  These outflows were partially offset by cash
generated by operating activities, net issuances of both long- and short-term
debt, the sale of independent power investments, the return of margin cash
collateral from counterparties and a distribution relating to an Indonesian
project. 

FPL
Group's cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006 benefited from net
issuances of debt, the issuance of common stock and the recovery from customers
of previously incurred fuel and storm costs at FPL, which were offset by an
increase in FPL's customer receivables and the return of margin cash collateral
to counterparties and payment of margin cash collateral to
counterparties.  The funds generated were used to pay for capital
expenditures at FPL, additional investments at NextEra Energy Resources, common
stock dividends, storm-related costs at FPL and to carry an increase in fossil
fuel inventory. 

39 

Contractual Obligations and Planned
Capital Expenditures    FPL Group's and FPL's commitments at
December 31, 2008 were as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      principal, interest and interest rate swaps.  Variable rate
      interest was computed using December 31, 2008
  rates. 

(b) 

Includes
      $633 million of tax exempt bonds that permit individual bond holders to
      tender the bonds for purchase at any time prior to maturity.  In the
      event bonds are tendered for purchase, they would be remarketed by a
      designated remarketing agent in accordance with the related
      indenture.  If the remarketing is unsuccessful, FPL would be required
      to purchase the tax exempt bonds.  As of December 31, 2008,
      all tax exempt bonds tendered for purchase have been successfully
      remarketed.  FPL's bank revolving lines of credit are available
      to support the purchase of tax exempt bonds. 

(c) 

Represents
      required capacity and minimum payments under long-term purchased power and
      fuel contracts, the majority of which are recoverable through various cost
      recovery clauses (see Note 15   Contracts), and projected capital
      expenditures through 2013.  See Note 15  
      Commitments. 

(d) 

Represents
      firm commitments primarily in connection with the purchase of wind
      turbines and towers, natural gas transportation, purchase and storage,
      firm transmission service, nuclear fuel and a portion of its projected
      capital expenditures.  See Note 15   Commitments and
      Contracts. 

(e) 

Represents
      expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to
      perform asset retirement activities. 

(f) 

At
      December 31, 2008, FPL had approximately $2,035 million in restricted
      trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPL's
      nuclear units, which are included in FPL Group's and FPL's special use
      funds. 

(g) 

At
      December 31, 2008, NextEra Energy Resources' 88.23% portion of
      Seabrook's and 70% portion of Duane Arnold's and its Point Beach's
      restricted trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to
      decommission its nuclear units totaled approximately $789 million and are
      included in FPL Group's special use funds. 

(h) 

Represents
      estimated cash distributions related to certain membership
      interests.  See Note 11   Sale of Differential Membership
      Interests. 

Guarantees and Letters of Credit
   FPL Group and FPL obtain letters of credit and issue guarantees to
facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and
financings.  At December 31, 2008, FPL Group had standby letters
of credit of approximately $1.2 billion ($557 million for FPL) and approximately
$8.6 billion notional amount of guarantees ($648 million for FPL), of which
approximately $6.6 billion ($567 million for FPL) have expirations within the
next five years.  An aggregate of approximately $861 million of the
standby letters of credit at December 31, 2008 were issued under FPL's and
FPL Group Capital's credit facilities.  See Available Liquidity
above.  Letters of credit and guarantees support the buying and
selling of wholesale energy commodities, debt and related reserves, nuclear
activities, capital expenditures for wind development, the commercial paper
program of FPL's consolidated VIE from which it leases nuclear fuel and other
contractual agreements.  Each of FPL Group and FPL believe it is
unlikely that it would incur any liabilities associated with these letters of
credit and guarantees.  At December 31, 2008, FPL Group and FPL
did not have any liabilities recorded for these letters of credit and
guarantees.  In addition, FPL Group has guaranteed certain payment
obligations of FPL Group Capital, including most of its debt and all of its
debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its payment
guarantees, and FPL Group Capital has guaranteed certain debt and other
obligations of NextEra Energy Resources and its subsidiaries.  See
Note 15   Commitments. 

Certain
subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources have contracts that require certain
projects to meet annual minimum generation amounts.  Failure to meet
the annual minimum generation amounts would result in the NextEra Energy
Resources subsidiary becoming liable for liquidated damages.  Based on
past performance of these and similar projects and current forward prices,
management believes that it is unlikely to experience a material exposure as a
result of these liquidated damages. 

Covenants    FPL Group's
charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common
stock.  As a practical matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay
dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends
paid to it by its subsidiaries.  During the first quarter of 2008, FPL
Group increased its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.41 to $0.445
per share.  In February 2009, FPL Group announced that it would
increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.445 to $0.4725 per
share.  FPL pays dividends to FPL Group in a manner consistent with
FPL's long-term targeted capital structure.  The mortgage securing
FPL's first mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions,
restrict the payment of dividends to FPL Group and the issuance of additional
first mortgage bonds.  In light of FPL's current financial condition
and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing
activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. 

40 

Under
the mortgage, in some cases, the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to
pay cash dividends on its common stock is restricted.  The restricted
amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage.  Other
than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage
does not restrict FPL's use of retained earnings.  As of
December 31, 2008, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions
of the mortgage. 

FPL may
issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted
net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, which generally requires adjusted
net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at
least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPL's first mortgage bonds
including those to be issued and any other non-junior FPL
indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2008, coverage for the 12
months ended December 31, 2008 would have been approximately 6.4 times the
annual interest requirements and approximately 3.7 times the aggregate principal
requirements.  New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount
equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to
offset property retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or
qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage
trustee.  As of December 31, 2008, FPL could have issued in
excess of $6.5 billion of additional first mortgage bonds based on the unfunded
property additions and in excess of $5.5 billion based on retired first mortgage
bonds.  As of December 31, 2008, no cash was deposited with the
mortgage trustee for these purposes. 

In
September 2006, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital
Covenant (September 2006 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capital's offering of
$350 million principal amount of Series A Enhanced Junior Subordinated
Debentures due 2066 and $350 million principal amount of Series B Enhanced
Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (collectively, Series A and Series B
junior subordinated debentures).  The September 2006 RCC is for the
benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term
indebtedness (covered debt) of FPL Group Capital (other than the Series A and
Series B junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of FPL
Group.  FPL Group Capital Trust I's 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities
have been initially designated as the covered debt under the September 2006
RCC.  The September 2006 RCC provides that FPL Group Capital may
redeem, and FPL Group or FPL Group Capital may purchase, any Series A and Series
B junior subordinated debentures on or before October 1, 2036, only to the
extent that the redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount
of proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities, subject to certain
limitations described in the September 2006 RCC.  Qualifying
securities are securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the
same as, or more equity-like than, the Series A and Series B junior subordinated
debentures at the time of redemption or purchase, which are sold within 180 days
prior to the date of the redemption or repurchase of the Series A and Series B
junior subordinated debentures. 

In June
2007, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital Covenant
(June 2007 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capital's offering of $400 million
principal amount of its Series C Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (Series
C junior subordinated debentures).  The June 2007 RCC is for the
benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of
FPL Group Capital (other than the Series C junior subordinated debentures) or,
in certain cases, of FPL Group. FPL Group Capital Trust I's 5 7/8% Preferred
Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the
June 2007 RCC.  The June 2007 RCC provides that FPL Group Capital may
redeem or purchase, or satisfy, discharge or defease (collectively, defease),
and FPL Group and any majority-owned subsidiary of FPL Group or FPL Group
Capital may purchase, any Series C junior subordinated debentures on or before
June 15, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the
applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount
raised from the issuance, during the 180 days prior to the date of that
redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have
equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the
applicable characteristics of the Series C junior subordinated debentures at the
time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations
described in the June 2007 RCC. 

In
September 2007, FPL Group and FPL Group Capital executed a Replacement Capital
Covenant (September 2007 RCC) in connection with FPL Group Capital's offering of
$250 million principal amount of its Series D Junior Subordinated Debentures due
2067 and $350 million principal amount of Series E Junior Subordinated
Debentures due 2067 (collectively, Series D and Series E junior subordinated
debentures).  The September 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons
that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of FPL Group Capital
(other than the Series D and Series E junior subordinated debentures) or, in
certain cases, of FPL Group. FPL Group Capital Trust I's 5 7/8% Preferred Trust
Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the
September 2007 RCC.  The September 2007 RCC provides that FPL Group
Capital may redeem, purchase, or defease, and FPL Group and any majority-owned
subsidiary of FPL Group or FPL Group Capital may purchase, any Series D and
Series E junior subordinated debentures on or before September 1, 2037, only to
the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or
purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance,
during the 180 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or
defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity-like characteristics that
are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the
Series D and Series E junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption,
purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the
September 2007 RCC. 

41 

New
Accounting Rules and Interpretations 

Determining Whether Instruments
Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities 
 -  In June 2008, the
FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No.
03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions Are Participating Securities."  See Note 12  -  Earnings Per
Share. 

Accounting for Business Combinations
   In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141(R), "Business
Combinations."  This statement retains the fundamental requirements in
FAS 141 that the acquisition method of accounting (which FAS 141 called the
purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be
identified for each business combination.  This statement also
establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer (i) recognizes and
measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, (ii)
recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a
gain from a bargain purchase and (iii) discloses the nature and financial
effects of the business combination; and requires restructuring and
acquisition-related costs to be expensed.  FPL Group and FPL are
required to adopt FAS 141(R) for business combinations for which the acquisition
date is on or after January 1, 2009. 

Accounting for Noncontrolling
Interests    In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 160, "Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51," to
establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling (minority)
interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary.  The standard clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in
a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be
reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements and establishes a
single method of accounting for changes in a parent's ownership interest in a
subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation.  FAS 160 requires
retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for
existing minority interests.  All other requirements of FAS 160 will
be applied prospectively.  The adoption of FAS 160 on January 1,
2009 did not have a material effect on FPL Group's or FPL's financial
statements. 

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates 

FPL
Group's and FPL's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements, which were prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.  Critical accounting policies are those that FPL Group and FPL
believe are both most important to the portrayal of their financial condition
and results of operations, and require complex, subjective judgments, often as a
result of the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters
that are inherently uncertain.  Judgments and uncertainties affecting
the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts
being reported under different conditions or using different
assumptions. 

FPL
Group and FPL consider the following policies to be the most critical in
understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing their consolidated
financial statements: 

Accounting for Derivatives and
Hedging Activities    FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments
(primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk
inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as interest
rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with long-term
debt.  In addition, FPL Group, through NextEra Energy Resources, uses
derivatives to optimize the value of power generation assets.  NextEra
Energy Resources provides full energy and capacity requirements services
primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and
various ancillary services, in certain markets and engages in energy trading
activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price
movements.  Accounting pronouncements, which require the use of fair
value accounting if certain conditions are met, apply not only to traditional
financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting
characteristics of a derivative. 

Derivative
instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as
amended, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.  Fair values
for some of the longer-term contracts where liquid markets are not available are
based on internally developed models based on the forward prices for electricity
and fuel.  Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or
seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future
date.  In general, the models estimate the fair value of a contract by
calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and
the forward prices.  The near term forward market for electricity is
generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward
curves reflect observable market quotes.  However, in the later years,
the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using
factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to
generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the
efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region
where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected
spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region.  The
assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a
significant impact on the fair value of the contract.  Substantially
all changes in the fair value of derivatives held by FPL are deferred as a
regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled.  Upon
settlement, any gains or losses will be passed through the fuel or capacity
clauses.  In FPL Group's non-rate regulated operations, predominantly
NextEra Energy Resources, changes in derivative fair values are recognized in
current earnings, unless the criteria for hedge accounting are met and the
company elects to account for the derivative as a hedge.  For those
transactions accounted for as cash flow hedges, much of the effects of changes
in fair value are reflected in other comprehensive income (OCI), a component of
common shareholders' equity, rather than being recognized in current
earnings.  For those transactions accounted for as fair value hedges,
the effects of changes in fair value are reflected in current earnings offset by
changes in the fair value of the item being hedged. 

42 

Since
FAS 133 became effective in 2001, the FASB has discussed and from time to time
issued implementation guidance related to FAS 133.  In particular,
much of the interpretive guidance affects when certain contracts for the
purchase and sale of power and certain fuel supply contracts can be excluded
from the provisions of FAS 133.  Despite the large volume of
implementation guidance, FAS 133 and the supplemental guidance do not provide
specific guidance on all contract issues.  As a result, significant
judgment must be used in applying FAS 133 and its interpretations.  A
result of changes in interpretation could be that contracts that currently are
excluded from the provisions of FAS 133 would have to be recorded on the balance
sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the statement of
income. 

Certain
economic hedging transactions at NextEra Energy Resources do not meet the
requirements for hedge accounting treatment.  Changes in the fair
value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the statement
of income, often resulting in earnings volatility.  These changes in
fair value are captured in the non-qualifying hedge category in computing
adjusted earnings.  This could be significant to NextEra Energy
Resources' results because often the economic offset to the positions which are
required to be marked to market (such as the physical assets from which power is
generated) are not marked to market.  As a consequence, net income
reflects only the movement in one part of economically linked
transactions.  Because of this, FPL Group's management views results
expressed excluding the unrealized mark-to-market impact of the non-qualifying
hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance.  For
additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 3 and
also see Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity. 

Accounting for Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits      FPL Group sponsors a
qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all
employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries.  FPL Group also has a
supplemental executive retirement plan which includes a non-qualified
supplemental defined benefit pension component that provides benefits to a
select group of management and highly compensated employees.  In
addition to pension benefits, FPL Group sponsors a contributory postretirement
plan for health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits plan) for
retirees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility
requirements.  The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust
dedicated to providing the benefits under the plan.  The other
benefits plan has a partially funded trust dedicated to providing benefits
related to life insurance.  FPL Group allocates net periodic benefit
income or cost associated with the pension and other benefits plans to its
subsidiaries annually using specific criteria. 

FPL
Group adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of FAS 158, "Employers'
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,"
effective December 31, 2006 and the measurement date provisions of FAS 158
effective December 31, 2008.  Prior to 2008, FPL Group used a
measurement date of September 30.  In lieu of remeasuring plan
assets and obligations as of January 1, 2008, FPL Group elected to calculate the
net periodic benefit (income) cost for the fifteen-month period from
September 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008 using the September 30,
2007 measurement date.  Upon adoption of the measurement date
provisions, FPL Group recorded an adjustment to increase 2008 beginning retained
earnings by approximately $13 million representing three-fifteenths of net
periodic benefit (income) cost for the fifteen-month period from
September 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008. Included in the adjustment to
retained earnings is approximately $1 million related to the reduction in
accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and approximately $3 million
related to the reduction in net regulatory liabilities. 

Since
FPL Group is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights
to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, the results of
implementing all provisions of FAS 158 are reflected at FPL Group and not
allocated to the subsidiaries.  The portion of previously unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs or credits and transition assets
or obligations related to the recognition provision of FAS 158 that were
estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic benefit (income) cost in future
periods and that otherwise would have been recorded in AOCI were classified as
regulatory assets and liabilities at FPL Group in accordance with regulatory
treatment.  In addition, adjustments to AOCI as a result of
implementing the measurement date provisions of FAS 158 that were estimated to
be allocable to FPL were recorded as an adjustment to the previously established
regulatory assets and liabilities. 

FPL
Group's income from its pension plan, net of the cost of the other benefits
plan, was approximately $86 million, $69 million and $65 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The
corresponding amounts allocated to FPL were $60 million, $51 million and $52
million, respectively.  Pension income and the cost of the other
benefits plan are included in O M expenses, and are calculated using a
number of actuarial assumptions.  Those assumptions include an
expected long-term rate of return on qualified plan assets of 7.75% for all
years for the pension plan and 8.00%, 8.00% and 7.75% for the other benefits
plan for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively,
assumed increases in future compensation levels of 4% for all years, and
weighted-average discount rates of 6.25%, 5.85% and 5.50% for the pension plan
and 6.35%, 5.90% and 5.50% for the other benefits plan for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Based on current
health care costs (as related to other benefits), the projected 2009 trend
assumption used to measure the expected cost of health care benefits covered by
the plans for all age groups are 7.0% for medical benefits and 9.0% for
prescription drug benefits.  These rates are assumed to decrease over
the next seven years to the ultimate trend rate of 5.5% and remain at that level
thereafter.  The ultimate trend rate is assumed to be reached in 2015
for medical and prescription drug costs.  In developing these
assumptions, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries, as well as
information available in the marketplace.  For the expected long-term
rate of return on fund assets, FPL Group considered 10-year and 20-year
historical median returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar
to its funds.  FPL Group also considered its funds' historical
compounded returns.  FPL Group believes that 7.75% and 8.00% are
reasonable long-term rates of return on its pension plan and other benefits plan
assets, respectively.  FPL Group will continue to evaluate all of its
actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually,
and will adjust them as necessary. 

43 

FPL
Group bases its determination of pension and other benefits plan expense or
income on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-to-year
volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains
or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they
occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference
between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets
and the actual return realized on those assets.  Since the
market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year
period, the future value of assets will be affected as previously deferred gains
or losses are recognized.  Such gains and losses together with other
differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial
valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension and other benefits
plan expense and income only when they exceed 10% of the greater of projected
benefit obligations or the market-related value of assets. 

The
following table illustrates the effect on net periodic benefit income of
changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all
other assumptions constant: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Assumed
      health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts
      reported for postretirement plans providing health care
      benefits.  However, this effect is somewhat mitigated by the
      retiree cost sharing structure incorporated in FPL Group's other benefits
      plan. 

The fair
value of plan assets has decreased from $3.6 billion at September 30, 2007
to $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008 for the pension plan and decreased
from $49 million at September 30, 2007 to $29 million at December 31,
2008 for the other benefits plan.  Management believes that, based on
the actuarial assumptions and the well funded status of the pension plan, FPL
Group will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified
pension plan in the near future.  In December 2008, $26 million was
transferred from the qualified pension plan as reimbursement for eligible
retiree medical expenses paid by FPL Group during the year pursuant to the
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  FPL Group anticipates paying
approximately $29 million for eligible retiree medical expenses on behalf of the
other benefits plan during 2009 with substantially all of that amount being
reimbursed through a transfer of assets from the qualified pension
plan.  See Note 2. 

Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets
     FPL Group
evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability of its assets for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable as described in FAS 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." 

Under
that standard, an impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying
value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated
with that asset.  The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount
by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds the asset's fair
value.  In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting
estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. 

The
amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the
determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and
judgments about future events.  In particular, the aggregate amount of
cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash
flows is critical in determining fair value.  Because each assessment
is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long-lived asset,
the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. 

In 2006,
FPL FiberNet performed an impairment analysis and concluded that an impairment
charge related to its metro market assets was necessary.  The critical
assumptions and estimates used in the analysis include revenue additions,
projected capital expenditures and a discount rate.  A 10% increase in
the revenue growth rate or a 10% decrease in projected capital expenditures
would have resulted in no impairment, while a 10% decrease in the revenue growth
rate or a 10% increase in projected capital expenditures would increase the
impairment charge by less than $5 million.  An increase or decrease of
1% in the discount rate would have a corresponding change to the impairment
charge of approximately $3 million.    See Note 5  
Corporate and Other. 

Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil
Dismantlement    FPL Group and FPL each account for asset retirement
obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations (collectively, AROs)
under FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" and FIN 47,
"Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations."  FAS 143
and FIN 47 require that a liability for the fair value of an ARO be recognized
in the period in which it is incurred with the offsetting associated asset
retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived
assets.  See Note 1   Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants,
Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and
Note 14. 

44 

For
ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning
costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are
filed with the FPSC at least every five years.  The most recent
studies, filed in 2005, indicate that FPL's portion of the future cost of
decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage, is
approximately $10.9 billion, or $2.3 billion in 2008 dollars.  The
studies reflect, among other things, the 20-year license extensions of FPL's
nuclear units.  At December 31, 2008, $2,332 million was accrued
for nuclear decommissioning, of which $1,713 million was recorded as an ARO, $52
million was recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $495 million
was recorded as a regulatory liability and $176 million was included in accrued
asset removal costs (a regulatory liability) on the consolidated balance
sheets. 

FPL
accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil plants over the expected service life
of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC.  Unlike nuclear
decommissioning, fossil dismantlement costs are not funded.  The most
recent studies, which became effective January 1, 2007, indicated that
FPL's portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil units is $707
million.  The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered
AROs.  At December 31, 2008, $349 million was accrued for fossil
dismantlement costs, of which $26 million was recorded as an ARO, $8 million was
recorded as a capitalized net asset related to the ARO, $25 million was recorded
as a regulatory liability and $306 million was included in accrued asset removal
costs (a regulatory liability) on the consolidated balance sheets. 

NextEra
Energy Resources records a liability for the present value of its expected
decommissioning costs in accordance with FAS 143 and FIN 47 which is determined
using various internal and external data.  NextEra Energy Resources'
portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its nuclear plants, including
costs associated with spent fuel storage, is approximately $6.6 billion, or $1.4
billion expressed in 2008 dollars.  The liability is being accreted
using the interest method through the date decommissioning activities are
expected to be complete.  At December 31, 2008, the ARO for
nuclear decommissioning of NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear plants totaled
approximately $487 million. 

The
calculation of the future cost of retiring long-lived assets, including nuclear
decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs, involves estimating the amount
and timing of future expenditures and making judgments concerning whether or not
such costs are considered a legal obligation under FAS 143 and FIN
47.  Estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures includes,
among other things, making projections of when assets will be retired and how
costs will escalate with inflation.  In addition, FPL Group and FPL
also make interest rate and rate of return projections on their investments in
determining recommended funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning
costs.  Periodically, FPL Group and FPL will be required to update
these estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts
recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for
nuclear decommissioning costs.  For example, an increase of 0.25% in
the assumed escalation rates would increase FPL Group's and FPL's ARO as of
December 31, 2008 by $223 million and $174 million, respectively. 

Regulatory Accounting      FPL follows the
accounting practices set forth in FAS 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain
Types of Regulation."  FAS 71 indicates that regulators can create
assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non-rate regulated
entities.  Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future
revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the
ratemaking process.  If FPL were no longer subject to cost-based rate
regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off
unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or
refund.  In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery
of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  Such
costs may include, among others, fuel and O M expenses, the cost of
replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm
restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of
new facilities.  The continued applicability of FAS 71 is
assessed at each reporting period. 

45 

FPL
Group's and FPL's regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows: 

See Note
1 for a discussion of FPL Group's and FPL's other significant accounting
policies. 

Energy
Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity 

Energy Marketing and Trading 
  Certain of FPL Group's subsidiaries, including FPL and NextEra Energy
Resources, use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to
manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and
electricity.  In addition, FPL Group, through NextEra Energy
Resources, uses derivatives to optimize the value of power generation
assets.  NextEra Energy Resources provides full energy and capacity
requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include
load-following services and various ancillary services, in certain markets and
engages in energy trading activities to take advantage of expected future
favorable price movements. 

Derivative
instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, as amended, are
recorded on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets as either an asset
or liability measured at fair value.  At FPL, substantially all
changes in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the
contracts are settled.  Upon settlement, any gains or losses are
passed through the fuel clause or the capacity clause.  For FPL
Group's non-rate regulated operations, predominantly NextEra Energy Resources,
essentially all changes in the derivatives' fair value for power purchases and
sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating
revenues; fuel purchases and sales are recognized on a net basis in fuel,
purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees'
related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees
in FPL Group's consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is
applied.  See Note 3. 

46 

The
changes in the fair value of FPL Group's consolidated subsidiaries' energy
contract derivative instruments were as follows: 

FPL
Group's total mark-to-market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at
December 31, 2008 shown above are included in the consolidated balance
sheets as follows: 

The
sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative
instruments at December 31, 2008 were as follows: 

47 

Market Risk Sensitivity   
Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of FPL
Group and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than
trading.  Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value
resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices,
interest rates or equity prices over the next year.  In December 2008,
FPL Group Capital entered into a cross currency basis swap to hedge against
currency movements with respect to both interest and principal payments on a
loan; the fair value of the cross currency basis swap was not material at
December 31, 2008.  Management has established risk management
policies to monitor and manage market risks.  With respect to
commodities, FPL Group's Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised
of certain members of senior management, is responsible for the overall approval
of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and
authorization levels.  The EMC receives periodic updates on market
positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management
activities. 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy
marketing and trading operations.  Credit risk is the risk that a
financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not
fulfill its financial obligation.  FPL Group manages counterparty
credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations
through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some
cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and
other collateral and guarantees.  Credit risk is also managed through
the use of master netting agreements.  FPL Group's credit department
monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their
affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 

Commodity
price risk   FPL Group uses a value-at-risk (VaR) model to measure market risk
in its trading and mark-to-market portfolios.  The VaR is the
estimated nominal loss of market value based on a one-day holding period at a
95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology.  As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the VaR figures are as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Non-qualifying
      hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets
      or contracts which are not marked to market.  The VaR figures
      for the non-qualifying hedges and hedges in OCI and FPL cost recovery
      clauses category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price
      movements. 

Interest
rate risk   FPL Group and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in
interest rates as a result of their respective issuances of debt, investments in
special use funds and other investments.  FPL Group and FPL manage
their respective interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates,
entering into interest rate swaps and adjusting their variable rate debt in
relation to total capitalization. 

The
following are estimates of the fair value of FPL Group's and FPL's financial
instruments: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Based
      on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. 

(b) 

Based
      on market prices provided by external sources. 

(c) 

Based
      on market prices modeled
internally. 

48 

The
special use funds of FPL Group and FPL consist of restricted funds set aside to
cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of FPL
Group's and FPL's nuclear power plants.  A portion of these funds is
invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their market
value.  At FPL, adjustments to market value result in a corresponding
adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory
treatment.  The market value adjustments of FPL Group's non-rate
regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI, except for
impairments deemed to be other than temporary which are reported in current
period earnings.  Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage
could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid
and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates.  The
nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in
longer-term securities, as decommissioning activities are not scheduled to begin
until at least 2014 (2032 at FPL). 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate
debt to manage interest rate exposure.  Interest rate swaps are used
to adjust and mitigate interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon
market conditions or when required by financing agreements.  At
December 31, 2008, the estimated fair value for FPL Group interest rate
swaps was as follows: 

____________________ 

Based
upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable
near-term market change, the net fair value of FPL Group's net liabilities would
increase by approximately $671 million ($304 million for FPL) at
December 31, 2008. 

Equity
price risk   Included in the nuclear decommissioning reserve funds of FPL Group
are marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately
$1,080 million and $1,456 million ($648 million and $1,063 million for FPL) at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  A hypothetical 10%
decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable
near-term market change, would result in a $108 million ($65 million for FPL)
reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustments to the related liability
accounts based on current regulatory treatment for FPL, or adjustments to OCI
for FPL Group's non-rate regulated operations, at December 31,
2008. 

Credit
risk   For all derivative and contractual transactions, FPL Group's energy
marketing and trading operations, which includes FPL's energy marketing and
trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties to these transactions.  Relevant considerations when
assessing FPL Group's energy marketing and trading operations' credit risk
exposure include: 

Operations
      are primarily concentrated in the energy
  industry. 

Trade
      receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy,
      utility and financial services related companies, as well as
      municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the United
      States. 

Overall
      credit risk is managed through established credit
  policies. 

Prospective
      and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon
      established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards
      providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as
      letters of credit or the posting of margin cash
  collateral. 

The
      use of master netting agreements to offset cash and non-cash gains and
      losses arising from derivative instruments with the same
      counterparty.  FPL Group's policy is to have master netting
      agreements in place with significant
  counterparties. 

49 

Based on
FPL Group's policies and risk exposures related to credit, FPL Group and FPL do
not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial positions as a
result of counterparty nonperformance.  As of December 31, 2008,
approximately 92% of FPL Group's and 100% of FPL's energy marketing and trading
counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have
investment grade credit ratings. 

Item
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk 

See
Management's Discussion   Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk
Sensitivity   Market Risk Sensitivity. 

50 

Item
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

MANAGEMENT'S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

FPL
Group, Inc.'s (FPL Group) and Florida Power   Light Company's (FPL)
management are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The consolidated financial
statements, which in part are based on informed judgments and estimates made by
management, have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a consistent basis. 

To aid
in carrying out this responsibility, we, along with all other members of
management, maintain a system of internal accounting control which is
established after weighing the cost of such controls against the benefits
derived.  In the opinion of management, the overall system of internal
accounting control provides reasonable assurance that the assets of FPL Group
and FPL and their subsidiaries are safeguarded and that transactions are
executed in accordance with management's authorization and are properly recorded
for the preparation of financial statements.  In addition, management
believes the overall system of internal accounting control provides reasonable
assurance that material errors or irregularities would be prevented or detected
on a timely basis by employees in the normal course of their
duties.  Any system of internal accounting control, no matter how well
designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility that controls can
be circumvented or overridden and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur
and not be detected.  Also, because of changes in conditions, internal
control effectiveness may vary over time.  Accordingly, even an
effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and reporting. 

The
system of internal accounting control is supported by written policies and
guidelines, the selection and training of qualified employees, an organizational
structure that provides an appropriate division of responsibility and a program
of internal auditing.  FPL Group's written policies include a Code of
Business Conduct   Ethics that states management's policy on conflict of
interest and ethical conduct.  Compliance with the Code of Business
Conduct   Ethics is confirmed annually by key personnel. 

The
Board of Directors pursues its oversight responsibility for financial reporting
and accounting through its Audit Committee.  This Committee, which is
comprised entirely of outside directors, meets regularly with management, the
internal auditors and the independent auditors to make inquiries as to the
manner in which the responsibilities of each are being
discharged.  The independent auditors and the internal audit staff
have free access to the Committee without management's presence to discuss
auditing, internal accounting control and financial reporting
matters. 

Management
assessed the effectiveness of FPL Group's and FPL's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, using the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the
Internal Control   Integrated Framework.  Based on this assessment,
management believes that FPL Group's and FPL's internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. 

FPL
Group's and FPL's independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte  
Touche LLP, is engaged to express an opinion on FPL Group's and FPL's
consolidated financial statements and an opinion on FPL Group's and FPL's
internal control over financial reporting.  Their reports are based on
procedures believed by them to provide a reasonable basis to support such
opinions.  These reports appear on the following pages. 

LEWIS
      HAY, III 

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

Lewis
      Hay, III 

                Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer of FPL Group 

                and
      Chairman of FPL 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                Executive
      Vice President, Finance and Chief 

                Financial
      Officer of FPL Group and FPL 

ARMANDO
      J. OLIVERA 

K.
      MICHAEL DAVIS 

Armando
      J. Olivera 

                President
      and Chief Executive Officer of FPL 

K.
      Michael Davis 

                Controller
      and Chief Accounting Officer 

                of
      FPL Group and Vice President, 

                Accounting
      and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL 

51 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders 

        FPL
Group, Inc. and Florida Power   Light Company: 

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of FPL Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries (FPL Group) and Florida Power   Light Company and subsidiaries
(FPL) as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.  FPL Group's and FPL's management are responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
their assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on FPL Group's and FPL's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects.  Our audits included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to
the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, FPL Group and FPL maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2008 of FPL Group and FPL and our report
dated February 26, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements. 

DELOITTE
  TOUCHE LLP 

      Certified
Public Accountants 

Miami,
Florida 

      February
26, 2009 

52 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders 

        FPL
Group, Inc. and Florida Power   Light Company: 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of FPL Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries (FPL Group) and the separate consolidated balance sheets of Florida
Power   Light Company and subsidiaries (FPL) as of December 31, 2008
and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, of FPL Group's
common shareholders' equity, of FPL's common shareholder's equity and of cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2008.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
respective company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of FPL Group and of FPL at December 31,
2008 and 2007, and the respective results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), FPL Group's and FPL's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria
established in  Internal
Control     Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2009 expressed an
unqualified opinion on FPL Group's and FPL's internal control over financial
reporting. 

DELOITTE
  TOUCHE LLP 

      Certified
Public Accountants 

Miami,
Florida 

      February
26, 2009 

53 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

      (millions,
except per share amounts) 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

54 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

      CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS 

      (millions) 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

55 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

      (millions) 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

56 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF COMMON SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 

      (millions) 

____________________ 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

57 

FLORIDA
POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

      (millions) 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

58 

FLORIDA
POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 

      CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS 

      (millions) 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

59 

FLORIDA
POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

      (millions) 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

60 

FLORIDA
POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 

      CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF COMMON SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY  (a)  

      (millions) 

____________________ 

(a) 

FPL's
      comprehensive income is the same as reported net
income. 

(b) 

Common
      stock, no par value, 1,000 shares authorized, issued and
      outstanding. 

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of
these statements. 

61 

FPL
GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 

      NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

      Years
Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 

1.  Summary
of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies 

Basis of Presentation    FPL
Group, Inc.'s (FPL Group) operations are conducted primarily through its
wholly-owned subsidiary Florida Power   Light Company (FPL) and its
wholly-owned indirect subsidiary NextEra Energy Resources, LLC (NextEra Energy
Resources) formerly known as FPL Energy, LLC.  FPL, a rate-regulated
public utility, supplies electric service to approximately 4.5 million customer
accounts throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of
Florida.  NextEra Energy Resources invests in independent power
projects through both controlled and consolidated entities and non-controlling
ownership interests in joint ventures essentially all of which are accounted for
under the equity method. 

The
consolidated financial statements of FPL Group and FPL include the accounts of
their respective majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries.  In
September 2007, NextEra Energy Resources acquired Point Beach Nuclear Power
Plant (Point Beach), a two-unit, 1,023 megawatt (mw) nuclear facility located in
Wisconsin.  Since the date of acquisition, Point Beach's results have
been included in FPL Group's consolidated financial statements.  All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.  Certain amounts included in prior years' consolidated
financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year's
presentation.  The preparation of financial statements requires the
use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates. 

Regulation    FPL is subject
to regulation by the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) and the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Its rates are designed to
recover the cost of providing electric service to its customers including a
reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  As a result of this
cost-based regulation, FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (FAS) 71, "Accounting for
the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  FAS 71 indicates
that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would not be
recorded by non-rate regulated entities.  Regulatory assets and
liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or
refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. 

Cost
recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs
and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the
various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange
expenses, conservation and certain environmental-related expenses, certain
revenue taxes and franchise fees.  Beginning in 2009, pre-construction
costs and carrying charges on construction costs for new nuclear capacity and
costs incurred for FPL's proposed solar generating facilities will also be
recovered through cost recovery clauses.  Revenues from cost recovery
clauses are recorded when billed; FPL achieves matching of costs and related
revenues by deferring the net underrecovery or overrecovery.  Any
underrecovered costs or overrecovered revenues are collected from or returned to
customers in subsequent periods.  Although clause revenues and
expenses do not significantly affect net income, the underrecoveries or
overrecoveries can significantly affect FPL Group's and FPL's operating cash
flows. 

In 2007,
the FPSC denied FPL's need petition for two ultra super critical pulverized coal
generating units in Glades County, Florida.  In December 2008, the
FPSC approved the recovery of approximately $34 million in pre-construction
costs associated with these units over a five-year period beginning January
2010.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, these costs are reflected
in regulatory assets  - 
other and other assets, respectively, on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated
balance sheets. 

If FPL
were no longer subject to cost-based rate regulation, the regulatory assets and
liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means
of recovery or refund.  In addition, the FPSC has the authority to
disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently
incurred.  The continued applicability of FAS 71 is assessed at each
reporting period. 

Revenues and Rates    FPL's
retail and wholesale utility rate schedules are approved by the FPSC and the
FERC, respectively.  FPL records unbilled base revenues for the
estimated amount of energy delivered to customers but not yet
billed.  Unbilled base revenues are included in customer receivables
and amounted to approximately $114 million and $119 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  FPL's operating revenues also include
amounts resulting from cost recovery clauses (see Regulation), franchise fees,
gross receipts taxes and surcharges related to the recovery of storm restoration
costs associated with hurricanes and storm-recovery bonds (see
Note 9  -  FPL).  Franchise
fees and gross receipts taxes are imposed on FPL; however, the FPSC allows FPL
to include in the amounts charged to customers the amount of the gross receipts
tax for all customers and the franchise amount for those customers located in
the jurisdiction that imposes the fee.  Accordingly, franchise fees
and gross receipts taxes are reported gross in operating revenues and taxes
other than income taxes on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated statements of
income and were approximately $781 million, $755 million and $773 million in
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  FPL also collects municipal
utility taxes which are reported gross in customer receivables and accounts
payable on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 

62 

In 2005,
the FPSC approved a stipulation and settlement agreement regarding FPL's retail
base rates (2005 rate agreement), signed by FPL and all of the interveners in
its 2005 base rate proceeding.  FPL expects the 2005 rate agreement to
be in effect through December 31, 2009; thereafter, it shall remain in
effect until terminated on the date new retail base rates become effective
pursuant to an FPSC order. 

The 2005
rate agreement provides that retail base rates will not increase during the term
of the agreement except to allow recovery of the revenue requirements of any
power plant approved pursuant to the Florida Power Plant Siting Act (Siting Act)
that achieves commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate
agreement.  Retail base rates increased approximately $86 million in
2007 when a 1,144 mw natural gas-fired plant at FPL's Turkey Point site (Turkey
Point Unit No. 5) was placed in service on May 1, 2007.  As
approved by the FPSC, FPL's retail base revenues will increase in 2009 when two
natural gas-fired combined-cycle units (West County Energy Center Units
Nos. 1 and 2), each with approximately 1,220 mw of net generating
capacity, are placed in service, which is expected to occur by the third quarter
of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2009.  The 2005 rate agreement also has
a revenue sharing mechanism, whereby revenues from retail base operations in
excess of certain thresholds will be shared with customers on the basis of
two-thirds refunded to customers and one-third retained by
FPL.  Revenues from retail base operations in excess of a second,
higher threshold (cap) will be refunded 100% to customers.  The
revenue sharing threshold and cap are established by increasing the prior year's
threshold and cap by the sum of the following:  (i) the average annual
growth rate in retail kilowatt-hour (kwh) sales for the ten-year period ending
December 31 of the preceding year multiplied by the prior year's retail
base rate revenue sharing threshold and cap and (ii) the amount of any
incremental base rate increases for power plants approved pursuant to the Siting
Act that achieve commercial operation during the term of the 2005 rate
agreement.  The revenue sharing threshold and cap for 2009 are
estimated to be $4,534 million and $4,713 million, respectively. 

Under
the 2005 rate agreement, the accrual for the refund associated with the revenue
sharing mechanism is required to be computed monthly for each twelve-month
period of the rate agreement.  At the beginning of each twelve-month
period, planned revenues are reviewed to determine if it is probable that the
thresholds will be exceeded.  If so, an accrual is recorded each month
for a portion of the anticipated refund based on the relative percentage of
year-to-date planned revenues to the total estimated revenues for the
twelve-month period, plus accrued interest.  In addition, if in any
month actual revenues are above or below planned revenues, the accrual is
increased or decreased as necessary to recognize the effect of this variance on
the expected refund amount.  Under the 2005 rate agreement, the annual
refund (including interest) is required to be paid to customers as a credit to
their February electric bill.  For the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, there were no refunds due to customers. 

Under
the terms of the 2005 rate agreement: (i) FPL's electric property depreciation
rates are based upon the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the
FPSC in March 2005; however, FPL may reduce depreciation by up to $125 million
annually, (ii) FPL has the ability to recover prudently incurred storm
restoration costs, either through securitization provisions pursuant to the
Florida Statutes or through surcharges, and (iii) FPL will be allowed to recover
through a cost recovery clause prudently incurred incremental costs associated
with complying with an FPSC or FERC order regarding a regional transmission
organization. 

FPL does
not have an authorized regulatory return on common equity (ROE) under the 2005
rate agreement for the purpose of addressing earnings levels.  For all
other regulatory purposes, FPL has an ROE of 11.75%.  Under the 2005
rate agreement, the revenue sharing mechanism described above is the appropriate
and exclusive mechanism to address earnings levels.  However, if FPL's
regulatory ROE, as reported to the FPSC in FPL's monthly earnings surveillance
report, falls below 10% during the term of the 2005 rate agreement, FPL may
petition the FPSC to amend its base rates. 

In
November 2008, FPL notified the FPSC that it intends to initiate a base rate
proceeding in March 2009.  In the notification, FPL stated that it
expects to request an $800 million to $950 million annual increase in base rates
beginning on January 1, 2010 and an additional annual base rate increase
beginning on January 1, 2011.  These amounts exclude the effects
of depreciation, which depend in part on the results of a detailed depreciation
study that FPL is currently finalizing.  Further, FPL expects to
request that the FPSC continue to allow FPL to use the mechanism for recovery of
the revenue requirements of any new power plant approved pursuant to the Siting
Act that was established in FPL's 2005 rate agreement.  Hearings on
the base rate proceeding are expected during the third quarter of 2009 and a
final decision is expected by the end of 2009.  The final decision may
approve rates that are different from those that FPL will request. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' revenue is recorded as electricity is delivered, which is when
revenue is earned.  NextEra Energy Resources' retail energy business
records unbilled revenues for the estimated amount of energy delivered to
customers but not yet billed.  Unbilled revenues are included in
customer receivables and amounted to approximately $41 million and $26 million
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

63 

Electric Plant, Depreciation and
Amortization    The cost of additions to units of property of FPL and
NextEra Energy Resources is added to electric utility plant.  In
accordance with regulatory accounting, the cost of FPL's units of utility
property retired, less estimated net salvage value, is charged to accumulated
depreciation.  Maintenance and repairs of property as well as
replacements and renewals of items determined to be less than units of utility
property are charged to other operations and maintenance (O M)
expenses.  At December 31, 2008, the electric generating,
transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented
approximately 45%, 13%, 38% and 4%, respectively, of FPL's gross investment in
electric utility plant in service.  Substantially all of FPL's
properties are subject to the lien of FPL's mortgage, which secures most debt
securities issued by FPL.  A number of NextEra Energy Resources'
generating facilities are encumbered by liens against their assets securing
various financings.  The net book value of NextEra Energy Resources'
assets serving as collateral was approximately $5.3 billion at December 31,
2008. 

Depreciation
of FPL's electric property is primarily provided on a straight-line average
remaining life basis.  FPL includes in depreciation expense a
provision for fossil plant dismantlement and nuclear plant decommissioning (see
Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued
Asset Removal Costs).  For substantially all of FPL's property,
depreciation studies are performed and filed with the FPSC at least every four
years.  Pursuant to the 2005 rate agreement, FPL implemented new
depreciation rates on January 1, 2006 based on depreciation studies filed with
the FPSC in March 2005.  Under the 2005 rate agreement (see Revenues
and Rates), FPL reduced depreciation by $125 million annually in 2008, 2007 and
2006.  The weighted annual composite depreciation rate for FPL's
electric plant in service, including capitalized software, but excluding the
effects of decommissioning, dismantlement and the depreciation adjustments
discussed above, was approximately 3.6%, 3.6% and 3.7% for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  NextEra Energy Resources' electric plants in service
less salvage value, if any, are depreciated primarily using the straight-line
method over their estimated useful lives.  NextEra Energy Resources'
effective depreciation rates, excluding decommissioning, were 4.3%, 4.4% and
4.1% for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Nuclear Fuel    FPL leases
nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.  FPL Group and FPL
consolidate the lessor entity in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities," as revised (FIN 46(R)).  See Note 9  
FPL. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' nuclear units have several contracts for the supply,
conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel.  See
Note 15   Contracts.  NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear fuel
costs are charged to fuel expense on a unit of production method. 

Construction
Activity    Allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC)
is a non-cash item which represents the allowed cost of capital, including an
ROE, used to finance FPL construction projects.  The portion of AFUDC
attributable to borrowed funds is recorded as a reduction of interest expense
and the remainder is recorded as other income.  FPSC rules limit the
recording of AFUDC to projects that cost in excess of 0.5% of a utility's plant
in service balance and require more than one year to complete.  FPSC
rules allow construction projects below the 0.5% threshold as a component of
rate base.  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, AFUDC was capitalized at a
rate of 7.65%, 7.42% and 7.42%, respectively, and amounted to approximately $53
million, $36 million and $32 million, respectively.  See Note 15
  Commitments. 

FPL's
construction work in progress includes construction materials, progress payments
on major equipment contracts, third party engineering costs, AFUDC and other
costs directly associated with the construction of various
projects.  Upon completion of the projects, these costs are
transferred to electric utility plant in service.  At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL recorded approximately $194 million and
$188 million, respectively, of construction accruals, which are included in
other current liabilities on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance
sheets. 

NextEra
Energy Resources capitalizes project development costs once it is probable that
such costs will be realized through the ultimate construction of a power
plant.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, NextEra Energy Resources'
capitalized development costs totaled approximately $40 million and $26 million,
respectively, which are included in other assets on FPL Group's consolidated
balance sheets.  These costs include land rights and other third party
costs directly associated with the development of a new project.  Upon
commencement of construction, these costs either are transferred to construction
work in progress or remain in other assets, depending upon the nature of the
cost.  Capitalized development costs are charged to O M expenses
when recoverability is no longer probable. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' construction work in progress includes construction materials,
prepayments on turbine generators, third party engineering costs, capitalized
interest and other costs directly associated with the construction and
development of the project.  Interest capitalized on construction
projects amounted to $55 million, $39 million and $17 million during 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively.  NextEra Energy Resources' interest expense is
based on a deemed capital structure of 50% debt for operating projects and 100%
debt for projects under construction.  Upon commencement of plant
operation, costs associated with construction work in progress are transferred
to electric utility plant in service and other property.  At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, NextEra Energy Resources recorded approximately
$74 million and $106 million, respectively, of construction accruals, which are
included in other current liabilities on FPL Group's consolidated balance
sheets. 

64 

Asset Retirement
Obligations    FPL Group and FPL each account for asset
retirement obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations
(collectively, AROs) under FAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations" and FIN 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations."  See Note 14. 

Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants,
Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs    The
components of FPL Group's and FPL's decommissioning of nuclear plants,
dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs are as
follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Regulatory
      liability on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance
      sheets. 

(b) 

Represents
      total amount accrued for ratemaking
purposes. 

FPL
  For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues for the cost of end of life
retirement and disposal of its nuclear and fossil plants over the expected
service life of each unit based on nuclear decommissioning and fossil
dismantlement studies periodically filed with the FPSC.  In addition,
FPL accrues for interim removal costs over the life of the related assets based
on depreciation studies approved by the FPSC.  For financial reporting
purposes, FPL recognizes decommissioning and dismantlement liabilities in
accordance with FAS 143 and FIN 47.  Any differences between expense
recognized under FAS 143 and FIN 47 and the amount recoverable through rates are
reported as a regulatory liability in accordance with FAS 71.  See
Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization and Note 14. 

Nuclear
decommissioning studies are performed at least every five years and are
submitted to the FPSC for approval.  FPL filed updated nuclear
decommissioning studies with the FPSC in December 2005.  These studies
reflect FPL's current plans, under the operating licenses, for prompt
dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 following the end of plant
operation with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033,
respectively, and provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed
beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the
prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 at the end of its useful life
in 2043.  These studies also assume that FPL will be storing spent
fuel on site pending removal to a U.S. government facility.  The
studies indicate FPL's portion of the ultimate costs of decommissioning its four
nuclear units, including costs associated with spent fuel storage, to be
approximately $10.9 billion.  FPL's portion of the ultimate cost of
decommissioning its four units, expressed in 2008 dollars, is estimated by the
studies to aggregate $2.3 billion. 

During
2008, with respect to costs associated with nuclear decommissioning, FPL
recognized approximately $89 million related to ARO accretion expense,
approximately $2 million related to depreciation of the capitalized ARO asset
and approximately $91 million to adjust the total accrual to reflect the
suspension of an annual decommissioning accrual by the FPSC effective in
2005.  During 2007, with respect to costs associated with nuclear
decommissioning, FPL recognized approximately $84 million related to ARO
accretion expense, approximately $2 million related to depreciation of the
capitalized ARO asset and approximately $86 million to adjust the total accrual
to reflect the suspension of the annual decommissioning
accrual.  During 2006, with respect to costs associated with nuclear
decommissioning, FPL recognized approximately $80 million related to ARO
accretion expense, approximately $2 million related to depreciation of the
capitalized ARO asset and approximately $82 million to adjust the total accrual
to reflect the suspension of the annual decommissioning accrual. 

65 

Restricted
trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPL's nuclear
units are included in nuclear decommissioning reserve funds, which are included
in special use funds on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance
sheets.  Consistent with regulatory treatment, marketable securities
held in the decommissioning funds are classified as available for sale and are
carried at market value with market adjustments, including any
other-than-temporary impairment losses, resulting in a corresponding adjustment
to the related regulatory liability accounts.  See
Note 10.  Contributions to the funds were suspended in
2005.  Fund earnings, net of taxes, are reinvested in the
funds.  Earnings are recognized as income/loss and an offset is
recorded to reflect a corresponding increase/decrease in the related regulatory
liability accounts.  As a result, there is no effect on net
income.  The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax
purposes are included in accumulated deferred income taxes. 

FPL's
latest fossil fuel plant dismantlement studies became effective January 1, 2007
and indicate that FPL's portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil
units is $707 million.  FPL's next fossil fuel plant dismantlement
study is required to be filed with the FPSC concurrently with its next
depreciation study in March 2009.  During 2008, with respect to costs
associated with fossil dismantlement, FPL recognized approximately $2 million
related to ARO accretion expense and depreciation of the capitalized ARO asset
and approximately $13 million related to the non-legal obligation included in
accrued asset removal costs, which equaled the $15 million accrual approved by
the FPSC for dismantlement expense (included in depreciation and amortization
expense in FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated statements of
income).  During 2007, with respect to costs associated with fossil
dismantlement, FPL recognized approximately $2 million related to ARO accretion
expense and depreciation of the capitalized ARO asset, approximately $14 million
related to the non-legal obligation included in accrued asset removal costs and
approximately $1 million credit to adjust the total accrual to the $15 million
approved by the FPSC for dismantlement expense (included in depreciation and
amortization expense in FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated statements of
income).  During 2006, with respect to costs associated with fossil
dismantlement, FPL recognized approximately $1 million related to ARO accretion
expense and depreciation of the capitalized ARO asset, approximately $17 million
related to the non-legal obligation included in accrued asset removal costs and
approximately $1 million to adjust the total accrual to the $19 million approved
by the FPSC for dismantlement expense (included in depreciation and amortization
expense in FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated statements of
income). 

NextEra
Energy Resources   NextEra Energy Resources records nuclear decommissioning
liabilities for Seabrook Station (Seabrook),
Duane Arnold Energy Center (Duane Arnold) and Point Beach in
accordance with FAS 143 and FIN 47.  See Note 14.  At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, NextEra Energy Resources' ARO related to
nuclear decommissioning totaled approximately $487 million and $456 million,
respectively, and was determined using various internal and external
data.  NextEra Energy Resources' portion of the ultimate cost of
decommissioning its nuclear plants, including costs associated with spent fuel
storage, is approximately $6.6 billion, or $1.4 billion expressed in 2008
dollars.  The liability is being accreted using the interest method
through the date decommissioning activities are expected to be
complete. 

Seabrook's
decommissioning funding plan is based on a comprehensive nuclear decommissioning
study filed with the New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee
(NDFC) in 2007 and is effective for four years.  There are ongoing
minimum decommissioning funding requirements for Duane Arnold and
Point Beach with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), which
NextEra Energy Resources either meets or intends to meet in the form of a
guarantee for each plant.  NextEra Energy Resources' portion of
Seabrook's, Duane Arnold's and Point Beach's restricted trust funds for the
payment of future expenditures to decommission these plants is included in
nuclear decommissioning reserve funds, which are included in special use funds
on FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets.  Marketable securities
held in the decommissioning funds are classified as available for sale and are
carried at market value.  Market adjustments result in a corresponding
adjustment to other comprehensive income (OCI), except for unrealized losses
associated with marketable securities considered to be other-than-temporary,
which are recognized as an expense in FPL Group's consolidated statements of
income.  Fund earnings are recognized in income and are reinvested in
the funds either on a pretax or after-tax basis.  See
Note 10.  The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax
purposes are included in accumulated deferred income taxes. 

Major Maintenance Costs    FPL
uses the accrue-in-advance method for recognizing costs associated with planned
major maintenance, in accordance with regulatory treatment, and records the
related accrual as a regulatory liability.  NextEra Energy Resources
uses the deferral method to account for certain planned major maintenance
costs. 

FPL's
estimated nuclear maintenance costs for each nuclear unit's next planned outage
are accrued over the period from the end of the last outage to the end of the
next planned outage.  Any difference between the estimated and actual
costs is included in O M expenses when known.  The accrued
liability for nuclear maintenance costs at December 31, 2008 and 2007
totaled approximately $58 million and $39 million, respectively, and is included
in regulatory liabilities   other.  For the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, FPL recognized approximately $75 million,
$77 million and $72 million, respectively, in nuclear maintenance costs which
are included in O M expenses in FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated
statements of income. 

66 

NextEra
Energy Resources' major maintenance costs for its combustion turbines are
capitalized and amortized on a unit of production method over the period from
the end of the last outage to the beginning of the next planned
outage.  NextEra Energy Resources' major maintenance costs for its
nuclear generating units are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis
over the period from the end of the last outage to the beginning of the next
planned outage.  NextEra Energy Resources' deferred major maintenance
costs, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $81 million and
$47 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are included
in other assets.  For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, NextEra Energy Resources recognized approximately $57 million, $43 million
and $49 million in major maintenance costs which are included in O M
expenses in FPL Group's consolidated statements of income. 

Cash Equivalents    Cash
equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less. 

Restricted Cash    At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group had approximately $140 million ($40
million for FPL) and $146 million ($58 million for FPL), respectively, of
restricted cash included in other current assets on FPL Group's and FPL's
consolidated balance sheets, essentially all of which is restricted for margin
cash collateral, debt service and escrow payments.  Where offsetting
positions exist, restricted cash related to margin cash collateral is netted
against derivative instruments.  See Note 3. 

Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts    FPL maintains an accumulated provision for uncollectible
customer accounts receivable that is estimated using a percentage, derived from
historical revenue and write-off trends, of the previous five months of
revenue.  Additional amounts are included in the provision to address
specific items that are not considered in the calculation described
above.  NextEra Energy Resources regularly reviews collectibility of
its receivables and establishes a provision for losses estimated as a percentage
of accounts receivable based on the historical bad debt write-off trends for its
retail energy business and, when necessary, using the specific identification
method for all other receivables. 

Inventory    FPL values
materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventory using a weighted-average cost
method.  NextEra Energy Resources' materials, supplies and fossil fuel
inventories are carried at the lower of weighted-average cost or market, unless
evidence indicates that the weighted-average cost (even if in excess of market)
will be recovered with a normal profit upon sale in the ordinary course of
business. 

Energy Trading    FPL Group
provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to
distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various
ancillary services, in certain markets and engages in energy trading activities
to optimize the value of electricity and fuel contracts and generating
facilities, as well as to take advantage of expected favorable commodity price
movements.  Trading contracts that meet the definition of a derivative
are accounted for at market value and realized gains and losses from all trading
contracts, including those where physical delivery is required, are recorded net
for all periods presented.  See Note 3. 

Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets    FPL Group evaluates on an ongoing basis the recoverability
of its assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable as described in
FAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets."  See Note 5. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets    FPL Group's goodwill and other intangible assets are as
follows: 

67 

NextEra
Energy Resources has recorded goodwill in its merchant reporting unit related to
the acquisition of Gexa Corp. in 2005 and in its wind reporting unit related to
the acquisition of a wind modeling and analysis business in 2006 and two
Canadian wind projects in 2008.  The acquisitions were accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting.  NextEra Energy Resources'
other intangible assets are amortized, primarily on a straight-line basis, over
their estimated useful lives.  For the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, amortization expense was approximately $13 million, $12
million and $12 million, respectively, and is expected to be approximately $13
million, $12 million, $11 million, $10 million and $7 million for 2009, 2010,
2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' goodwill and other intangible assets are included in other
assets on FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets.  In accordance with
FAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," goodwill is assessed for
impairment at least annually by applying a fair value-based
test.  Other intangible assets are periodically reviewed when
impairment indicators are present to assess recoverability from future
operations using undiscounted future cash flows in accordance with FAS
144. 

Stock-Based
Compensation    FPL Group accounts for share-based payment
transactions based on grant-date fair value in accordance with FAS 123(R),
"Share-Based Payment."  See Note 12   Stock-Based
Compensation. 

Retirement of Long-Term Debt 
  Gains and losses that result from differences in FPL's reacquisition cost and
the book value of long-term debt which is retired are deferred and amortized to
interest expense ratably over the remaining life of the original issue, which is
consistent with its treatment in the ratemaking process.  FPL Group
Capital Inc (FPL Group Capital) recognizes such differences as other income
(deductions) at time of retirement. 

Income Taxes    Deferred
income taxes are provided on all significant temporary differences between the
financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities.  In
connection with the tax sharing agreement between FPL Group and its
subsidiaries, the income tax provision at each subsidiary reflects the use of
the "separate return method," except that tax benefits that could not be used on
a separate return basis, but are used on the consolidated tax return, are
recorded by the subsidiary that generated the tax benefits.  Any
remaining consolidated income tax benefits or detriments are recorded at the
corporate level.  Included in other regulatory assets on FPL Group's
and FPL's consolidated balance sheets is the revenue equivalent of the
difference in accumulated deferred income taxes computed under FAS 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes," as compared to regulatory accounting
rules.  This amount totaled $92 million and $61 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is being amortized in
accordance with the regulatory treatment over the estimated lives of the assets
or liabilities for which the deferred tax amount was initially
recognized.  Investment tax credits (ITCs) for FPL are deferred and
amortized to income over the approximate lives of the related property in
accordance with the regulatory treatment.  At December 31, 2008
and 2007, deferred ITCs were approximately $16 million and $31 million,
respectively, and are included in other regulatory liabilities on FPL Group's
and FPL's consolidated balance sheets.  NextEra Energy Resources
recognizes ITCs as a reduction to income tax expense when the related energy
property is placed into service.  Production tax credits (PTCs) are
recognized as wind energy is generated and sold based on a per kwh rate
prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes.  PTCs generated
by certain wind operations of NextEra Energy Resources are recorded as a
reduction of current income taxes payable, unless limited by tax law in which
instance they are recorded as deferred tax assets.  A valuation
allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets
unless it is more likely than not that such assets will be
realized.  All tax positions taken by FPL Group in its income tax
returns that are recognized in the financial statements must satisfy a
more-likely-than-not threshold established under FIN 48, "Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No.
109."  See Note 6. 

Guarantees    FPL Group and
FPL each account for payment guarantees and related contracts, for which it or a
subsidiary is the guarantor, under FIN 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others," which requires that the fair value of guarantees
provided to unconsolidated entities entered into after December 31, 2002 be
recorded on the balance sheet.  See Note 15  
Commitments. 

Variable Interest Entities
(VIEs)    FIN 46(R) requires FPL Group and FPL to assess the variable
interests they hold and determine if those entities are VIEs.  See
Note 9. 

68 

2.  Employee
Retirement Benefits 

Employee Benefit Plans and Other
Postretirement Plan    FPL Group sponsors a qualified noncontributory
defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of FPL Group and
its subsidiaries, including Point Beach since September 2007.  FPL
Group allocates net periodic pension benefit income to its subsidiaries based on
the pensionable earnings of the subsidiaries' employees.  FPL Group
also has a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP), which includes a
non-qualified supplemental defined benefit pension component that provides
benefits to a select group of management and highly compensated
employees.  FPL Group allocates net periodic SERP benefit costs to its
subsidiaries based upon actuarial calculations by participant.  The
impact of this SERP component is included within pension benefits in the
following tables, and was not material to FPL Group's financial statements for
the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  In addition to
pension benefits, FPL Group sponsors a contributory postretirement plan for
health care and life insurance benefits (other benefits) for retirees of FPL
Group and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility
requirements.  FPL Group allocates other benefits net periodic benefit
costs to its subsidiaries based upon the number of eligible employees at each
subsidiary. 

Implementation
of FAS 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans"   FPL Group adopted the recognition and disclosure
provisions of FAS 158 effective December 31, 2006 and the measurement date
provisions of FAS 158 effective December 31, 2008.  Prior to
2008, FPL Group used a measurement date of September 30.  In lieu
of remeasuring plan assets and obligations as of January 1, 2008, FPL Group
elected to calculate the net periodic benefit (income) cost for the
fifteen-month period from September 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008
using the September 30, 2007 measurement date.  Upon adoption of
the measurement date provisions, FPL Group recorded an adjustment to increase
2008 beginning retained earnings by approximately $13 million representing
three-fifteenths of net periodic benefit (income) cost for the fifteen-month
period from September 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008. Included in the
adjustment to retained earnings is approximately $1 million related to the
reduction in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and approximately $3
million related to the reduction in net regulatory liabilities. 

Since
FPL Group is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights
to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, the results of
implementing all provisions of FAS 158 are reflected at FPL Group and not
allocated to the subsidiaries.  The portion of previously unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs or credits and transition assets
or obligations related to the recognition provision of FAS 158 that were
estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic benefit (income) cost in future
periods and that otherwise would have been recorded in AOCI were classified as
regulatory assets and liabilities at FPL Group in accordance with regulatory
treatment.  In addition, adjustments to AOCI as a result of
implementing the measurement date provisions of FAS 158 that were estimated to
be allocable to FPL were recorded as an adjustment to the previously established
regulatory assets and liabilities. 

69 

Plan
Assets, Benefit Obligations and Funded Status   The changes in assets and
benefit obligations of the plans and a reconciliation of the plans' funded
status to the amounts on the consolidated balance sheets are as
follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Employer
      contributions and benefits paid include only those amounts contributed
      directly to, or paid directly from, plan assets.  FPL's portion
      of contributions related to other benefits was $32 million and $25 million
      for the 2008 and 2007 plan years presented,
  respectively. 

(b) 

Represents
      amounts that were transferred from the qualified pension plan as
      reimbursement for eligible retiree medical expenses paid by FPL Group
      pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
    (IRC). 

(c) 

Primarily
      relates to union negotiated credits, IRC transfers and various SERP
      amendments. 

(d) 

FPL
      Group's accumulated benefit obligation, which includes no assumption about
      future compensation levels, for its pension plans at December 31,
      2008 and September 30, 2007 was $1,559 million and $1,601 million,
      respectively. 

FPL
Group's and FPL's prepaid (accrued) benefit cost shown above are included in the
consolidated balance sheets as follows: 

70 

FPL
Group's unrecognized amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) yet to be recognized as components of prepaid (accrued) benefit cost are
as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Approximately
      $7 million of gains and $1 million of prior service benefits will be
      reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 

(b) 

Approximately
      $1 million of transition obligations will be reclassified into earnings
      within the next 12 months. 

FPL
Group's unrecognized amounts included in regulatory assets (liabilities) yet to
be recognized as components of net prepaid (accrued) benefit cost are as
follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Approximately
      $3 million of prior service benefits and $16 million of gains will be
      reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 

(b) 

Approximately
      $2 million of transition obligations will be reclassified into earnings
      within the next 12 months. 

The
following table provides the weighted-average assumptions used to determine
benefit obligations for the plans.  These rates are used in
determining net periodic benefit cost in the following year. 

A 7.00%
annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered medical benefits and a
9.00% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered prescription
drug benefits were assumed for 2009.  The rates are assumed to
decrease gradually to 5.50% by 2015 for medical and prescription drug benefits,
and remain at that level thereafter.  Assumed health care cost trend
rates have an effect on the amounts reported for postretirement plans providing
health care benefits.  An increase or decrease of one percentage point
in assumed health care cost trend rates would have a corresponding effect on the
other benefits accumulated obligation of approximately $5 million and $4
million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. 

FPL
Group's current investment policy for the pension plan recognizes the benefit of
protecting the plan's funded status, thereby avoiding the necessity of future
employer contributions.  Its broad objectives are to achieve a high
rate of total return with a prudent level of risk taking while maintaining
sufficient liquidity and diversification to avoid large losses and preserve
capital over the long term. 

FPL
Group's pension plan fund has a strategic asset allocation that currently
targets a mix of 45% equity investments, 45% fixed income investments and 10%
convertible bonds.  The fund's investment strategy emphasizes
traditional investments, broadly diversified across the global equity and fixed
income markets, using a combination of different investment styles and
vehicles.  The pension fund's equity investments include direct equity
holdings and assets classified as equity commingled
vehicles.  Similarly, its fixed income investments include direct debt
security holdings and assets classified as debt security commingled
vehicles.  These equity and debt security commingled vehicles include
common and collective trusts, pooled separate accounts, registered investment
companies or other forms of pooled investment arrangements. 

71 

With
regard to its other benefits plans, FPL Group's policy is to fund claims as
incurred during the year through FPL Group contributions, participant
contributions and plan assets.  The other benefits plans' assets are
invested with a focus on assuring the availability of funds to pay benefits
while maintaining sufficient diversification to avoid large losses and preserve
capital.  The other benefits plans' fund has a strategic asset
allocation that currently targets a mix of 60% equity investments and 40% fixed
income investments.  The fund's investment strategy emphasizes
traditional investments, diversified across the global equity and fixed income
markets.  The fund's equity investments are comprised of assets
classified as equity commingled vehicles.  Similarly, its fixed income
investments are comprised of assets classified as debt security commingled
vehicles.  These equity and debt commingled vehicles include common
and collective trusts, pooled separate accounts, registered investment companies
or other forms of pooled investment arrangements. 

At
December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007, the asset allocation for FPL
Group's pension and other benefits funds were as follows: 

Expected
Cash Flows   FPL Group anticipates paying approximately $29 million
for eligible retiree medical expenses on behalf of the other benefits plan
during 2009 with substantially all amounts being reimbursed through a transfer
of assets from the qualified pension plan. 

The
following table provides information about benefit payments expected to be paid
by the plans, net of government drug subsidy, for each of the following calendar
years: 

Net
Periodic Cost   The components of net periodic benefit (income) cost for the
plans are as follows: 

72 

Other
Comprehensive Income   The components of net periodic benefit income (cost)
recognized in OCI for the plans are as follows: 

Regulatory
Assets (Liabilities)   The components of net periodic benefit (income) cost
recognized during the year in regulatory assets (liabilities) for the plans are
as follows: 

The
weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit (income)
cost for the plans are as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

In
      developing the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for
      its plans, FPL Group evaluated input from its actuaries as well as
      information available in the marketplace.  FPL Group considered
      the 10-year and 20-year historical median returns for a portfolio with an
      equity/bond asset mix similar to its funds.  FPL Group also
      considered its funds' historical compounded returns.  No
      specific adjustments were made to reflect expectations of future
      returns. 

Assumed
health care cost trend rates have an effect on the amounts reported for
postretirement plans providing health care benefits.  An increase or
decrease of one percentage point in assumed health care cost trend rates would
have affected the total service and interest cost recognized at
December 31, 2008 by less than $1 million. 

Employee Contribution Plans   
FPL Group offers employee retirement savings plans which allow eligible
participants to contribute a percentage of qualified compensation through
payroll deductions.  FPL Group makes matching contributions to
participants' accounts.  Defined contribution expense pursuant to
these plans was approximately $37 million, $35 million and $32 million for FPL
Group ($28 million, $27 million and $26 million for FPL) for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  See Note 12
  Employee Stock Ownership Plan. 

73 

3.  Derivative
Instruments 

Derivative
instruments, when required to be marked to market under FAS 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended, are recorded on FPL
Group's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability
measured at fair value. 

FPL
Group's and FPL's mark-to-market derivative instrument assets (liabilities) are
included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

At
      December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group balances reflect the netting of $60
      million and $4 million (none at FPL), respectively, in obligations to
      return margin cash collateral. 

(b) 

At
      December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group balances reflect the netting of $33
      million and $43 million (none and $16 million at FPL), respectively, in
      rights to reclaim margin cash collateral. 

(c) 

At
      December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group balances reflect the netting of $25
      million and $1 million (none at FPL), respectively, in rights to reclaim
      margin cash collateral. 

(d) 

Included
      in other liabilities on FPL's consolidated balance
  sheets. 

At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group had approximately $66 million and $18
million (none at FPL), respectively, in margin cash collateral received from
counterparties that was not offset against derivative assets.  These
amounts are included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance
sheets.  Additionally, at December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group
had approximately $98 million and $57 million (none and $11 million at FPL),
respectively, in margin cash collateral provided to counterparties that was not
offset against derivative liabilities.  These amounts are included in
other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 

FPL
Group and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards)
to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and
electricity, as well as interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk
associated with long-term debt.  In addition, FPL Group, through
NextEra Energy Resources, uses derivatives to optimize the value of power
generation assets.  NextEra Energy Resources provides full energy and
capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which
include load-following services and various ancillary services, in certain
markets and engages in energy trading activities to take advantage of expected
future favorable price movements.  At FPL, substantially all changes
in fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the
contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed
through the fuel and purchased power cost recovery clause (fuel clause) or the
capacity cost recovery clause (capacity clause).  For FPL Group's
non-rate regulated operations, predominantly NextEra Energy Resources,
essentially all changes in the derivatives' fair value for power purchases and
sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating
revenues; fuel purchases and sales are recognized on a net basis in fuel,
purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees'
related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees
in FPL Group's consolidated statements of income unless hedge accounting is
applied.  While most of NextEra Energy Resources' derivative
transactions are entered into for the purpose of managing commodity price risk,
hedge accounting is only applied where specific criteria are met and it is
practicable to do so.  In order to apply hedge accounting, the
transaction must be designated as a hedge at inception and it must be highly
effective in offsetting the hedged risk.  Additionally, for hedges of
commodity price risk, physical delivery for forecasted commodity transactions
must be probable.  FPL Group believes that where offsetting positions
exist at the same location for the same time, the transactions are considered to
have been netted and therefore physical delivery has been deemed not to have
occurred for financial reporting purposes.  Transactions for which
physical delivery is deemed not to have occurred are presented on a net
basis.  Generally, the hedging instrument's effectiveness is assessed
using regression analysis at the inception of the hedge and on at least a
quarterly basis throughout its life. 

74 

At
December 31, 2008, FPL Group had cash flow hedges with expiration dates
through December 2012 for energy contract derivative instruments, and
interest rate cash flow hedges with expiration dates through January
2022.  The effective portion of the gain or loss on a derivative
instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is reported as a component of OCI and
is reclassified into earnings in the period(s) during which the transaction
being hedged affects earnings.  The ineffective portion of net
unrealized gains (losses) on these hedges is reported in earnings in the current
period and amounted to $25 million, $3 million and $31 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Settlement
gains and losses are included within the line items in the statements of income
to which they relate. 

FPL
Group's net unrealized mark-to-market gains (losses) on derivative transactions
reflected in the consolidated statements of income for both consolidated
subsidiaries and equity method investees are as follows: 

4.  Fair
Value Measurements 

Effective
January 1, 2008, FPL Group and FPL adopted FAS 157, "Fair Value
Measurements," which clarifies how to measure fair value and requires expanded
fair value measurement disclosures.  The standard emphasizes that fair
value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and
sets out a fair value hierarchy intended to disclose information about the
relative reliability of fair value measurements, with the highest priority being
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities.  FAS 157 was effective January 1, 2008 for financial
assets and liabilities and any other fair value measurements made on a recurring
basis, and on January 1, 2009 for non-financial assets and liabilities that
are not remeasured on a recurring basis.  The adoption of the
recognition provisions of FAS 157 did not have a material effect on FPL Group's
or FPL's financial statements. 

FPL
Group and FPL use several different valuation techniques to measure the fair
value of assets and liabilities, relying primarily on the market approach of
using prices and other market information for identical and/or comparable assets
and liabilities for those assets and liabilities that are measured on a
recurring basis.  Certain derivatives and financial instruments are
valued using option pricing models and take into consideration multiple inputs
including commodity prices, volatility factors and discount rates, as well as
counterparty credit ratings and credit enhancements.  Additionally,
when observable market data is not sufficient, valuation models are developed
that incorporate FPL Group's and FPL's proprietary views of market factors and
conditions.  FPL Group's and FPL's assessment of the significance of
any particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may
affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement
within the fair value hierarchy levels. 

75 

FPL
Group's and FPL's financial assets and liabilities and other fair value
measurements made on a recurring basis by fair value hierarchy level are as
follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      amounts for margin cash collateral and net option premium payments and
      receipts. 

(b) 

At
      FPL Group, approximately $712 million ($650 million at FPL) are invested
      in commingled funds whose underlying investments would be Level 1 if those
      investments were held directly by FPL Group or FPL.  The
      remaining investments are primarily comprised of fixed income securities
      including municipal, mortgage-backed, corporate and governmental
      bonds. 

(c) 

See
      Note 3 for a reconciliation of net derivatives to FPL Group's and
      FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 

The
reconciliation of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are based on
significant unobservable inputs is as follows: 

Year
      Ended 

                    December 31,
      2008 

FPL
      Group 

FPL 

(millions) 

Fair
      value of derivatives based on significant unobservable inputs at
      January 1, 2008 

$  
                  (127  
                  )  
                     
                  $  
                  (10  
                  )  

Unrealized
      gains (losses): 

Included in earnings   (a)  

196  

(1
        
                  )  

Included in regulatory assets
      and liabilities 

5  

5  

Settlements 

152  

4  

Net
      transfers out 

178  

1  

Fair
      value of derivatives based on significant unobservable inputs at
      December 31, 2008 

$  
                  404  

$  
                  (1  
                  )  

The amount of gains (losses) for
      the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized
      gains (losses) relating to derivatives still held at the reporting date
        (a)  

$  
                  410  

$  
                  (1  
                  )  

____________________ 

(a) 

Amounts
      are reflected in operating revenues in the consolidated statements of
      income. 

Effective
January 1, 2008, a subsidiary of FPL Group Capital adopted FAS 159, "The
Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities," for its
investments in debt securities.  The fair values of these debt
securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $105 million
and $111 million, respectively, and are primarily included in other investments
in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets.  The adoption of FAS 159
did not have a material effect on FPL Group's financial statements. 

5.    Restructuring and Impairment
Charges  

NextEra Energy Resources   
During the fourth quarter of 2006, NextEra Energy Resources recorded an
impairment charge of approximately $8 million ($4 million after-tax), related to
a coal plant in California, the fair value of which was determined based on a
discounted cash flow analysis.  The impairment charge was related to
unfavorable market pricing and accelerated equipment deterioration due to a
design flaw in the steam boiler and fluctuations in output
requirements. 

76 

Corporate and Other    In
2007, as a result of an impending migration to a more efficient form of
networking technology for FPL, FPL FiberNet, LLC (FPL FiberNet) performed an
impairment analysis of existing assets used to provide long-haul services to
FPL.  Due to the reduction in revenue associated with the significant
change in the expected useful life of these assets, FPL FiberNet recorded an
impairment charge of approximately $4 million ($2 million
after-tax). 

In 2006,
as a result of significant changes in the business climate, FPL FiberNet
performed an impairment analysis and concluded that an impairment charge related
to its metropolitan (metro) market assets, primarily property, plant and
equipment and inventory, was necessary.  The business climate changes
included customer consolidations, migration to a more efficient form of
networking technology and lack of future benefits to be achieved through
competitive pricing, all of which had a negative impact on the value of FPL
FiberNet's metro market assets.  While the metro market business was
expected to continue to generate positive cash flows, management's expectation
of the rate of future growth in cash flows was reduced as a result of these
business climate changes.  Accordingly, FPL FiberNet recorded an
impairment charge of approximately $98 million ($60 million after-tax) based on
a discounted cash flow analysis. 

6.  Income
Taxes 

The
components of income taxes are as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      FIN 48 income taxes. 

A
reconciliation between the effective income tax rates and the applicable
statutory rates is as follows: 

77 

The
income tax effects of temporary differences giving rise to consolidated deferred
income tax liabilities and assets are as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Amount
      is presented net of $49 million and $149 million, respectively, of tax
      carryforwards that are available to offset the FPL Group FIN 48
      liability. 

(b) 

Amount
      relates to deferred state tax credits and state operating loss
      carryforwards. 

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheets as
follows: 

The
components of FPL Group's deferred tax assets relating to net operating loss
carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2008 are as
follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Amount
      is presented net of $49 million of tax carryforwards that are available to
      offset the FIN 48 liability. 

78 

On
January 1, 2007, FPL Group and FPL adopted FIN 48.  The interpretation
prescribes a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and establishes new
measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entity's income
tax positions.  The adoption of FIN 48 did not have a significant
cumulative effect on FPL Group's and FPL's beginning retained earnings or other
components of common shareholders' equity.  The majority of the
liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits represent tax positions for which the
ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty
about the timing of such deductibility.  A disallowance of the shorter
deductibility period for these tax positions would not affect the annual
effective income tax rate.  Included in the liabilities for
unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 is approximately $6 million
at FPL Group ($1 million at FPL) that, if disallowed, could impact the annual
effective income tax rate. 

FPL
Group recognizes interest income (expense) related to unrecognized tax benefits
(liabilities) in interest income and interest expense, respectively, net of the
amount deferred at FPL.  At FPL, the offset to accrued interest
receivable (payable) on income taxes is classified as a regulatory liability
(regulatory asset) which will be amortized to income (expense) over a five-year
period upon settlement in accordance with regulatory treatment.  At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, FPL Group accrued approximately $111 million
and $91 million for net interest receivable ($23 million and $28 million for
FPL), respectively.  For the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007, FPL Group recorded $10 million and $24 million of interest, $14 million
and $13 million of which was recognized as interest income in FPL Group's
consolidated statements of income and $(4) million and $11 million,
respectively, in regulatory liabilities on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated
balance sheets. 

A
reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

FPL
Group and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
jurisdiction and various states, the most significant of which is
Florida.  FPL Group and FPL are effectively no longer subject to U.S.
federal, state and local examinations by taxing authorities for years before
2000.  FPL Group is planning to appeal an adverse court decision
related to FPL Group's and FPL's method for deducting certain repairs related to
years prior to 2000 and the denial of a refund claim related to
ITCs.  FPL Group is disputing certain adjustments proposed by the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to its U.S. income tax returns for 2000 through
2005.  These IRS proposed adjustments primarily relate to FPL Group's
and FPL's method for certain deductions for repairs, casualty losses and
capitalizing indirect service costs.  Additionally, income tax returns
for 2006 and 2007 are still subject to examination.  As such, the
amount of unrecognized tax benefits and related interest accruals may change
within the next twelve months.  FPL Group and FPL do not expect these
changes to have a significant impact on FPL Group's or FPL's financial
statements. 

79 

7.  Comprehensive
Income 

The
components of FPL Group's comprehensive income and accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Approximately
      $27 million of gains will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12
      months as either the hedged fuel is consumed, electricity is sold or
      interest payments are made.  Such amount assumes no change in
      fuel prices, power prices or interest rates. 

(b) 

Approximately
      $7 million of gains will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12
      months. 

80 

8.    Jointly-Owned Electric
Plants  

Certain
FPL Group subsidiaries own undivided interests in the jointly-owned facilities
described below, and are entitled to a proportionate share of the output from
those facilities.  FPL and NextEra Energy Resources are responsible
for their share of the operating costs, as well as providing their own
financing.  Accordingly, each subsidiary includes its proportionate
share of the facilities and related revenues and expenses in the appropriate
balance sheet and statement of income captions.  FPL Group's and FPL's
respective shares of direct expenses for these facilities are included in fuel,
purchased power and interchange, O M expenses, depreciation and amortization
expense and taxes other than income taxes on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated
statements of income. 

FPL
Group's and FPL's proportionate ownership interest in jointly-owned facilities
is as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Excludes
      nuclear fuel. 

9.    Variable Interest
Entities  

FIN
46(R) requires the consolidation of entities which are determined to be VIEs
when the reporting company determines that it will absorb a majority of the
VIE's expected losses, receive a majority of the VIE's residual returns, or
both.  The company that is required to consolidate the VIE is called
the primary beneficiary.  Conversely, the reporting company would not
consolidate VIEs in which it has a majority ownership interest when the company
is not considered to be the primary beneficiary.  Variable interests
are contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in an entity that change
as the fair value of the entity's net assets, excluding variable interests,
change.  An entity is considered to be a VIE when its capital is
insufficient to permit it to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support or its equity investors, as a group, lack the
characteristics of having a controlling financial interest.  As of
December 31, 2008, FPL Group has two VIEs which it
consolidates. 

FPL    FPL is considered the
primary beneficiary of, and therefore consolidates, a VIE from which it leases
nuclear fuel for its nuclear units.  FPL is considered the primary
beneficiary of this VIE because in the case of default by the VIE on its debt,
FPL would be required to purchase the VIE's nuclear fuel and because FPL
guarantees the VIE's debt.  For ratemaking purposes, these leases are
treated as operating leases.  For financial reporting, the cost of
nuclear fuel is capitalized and amortized to fuel expense on a unit of
production method except for the interest component, which is recorded as
interest expense.  These charges, as well as a charge for spent
nuclear fuel, are recovered through the fuel clause.  FPL makes
quarterly payments to the lessor for the lease commitments.  The
lessor has issued commercial paper to fund the procurement of nuclear fuel and
FPL has provided a $600 million guarantee to support the commercial paper
program.  Under certain lease termination circumstances, the
associated debt, which consists primarily of commercial paper (approximately
$347 million and $313 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively)
would become due.  The consolidated assets of the VIE consist
primarily of nuclear fuel, which had a net carrying value of approximately $338
million and $314 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

81 

FPL is
considered the primary beneficiary of and therefore consolidates a wholly-owned
bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that it formed in 2007 for the sole
purpose of issuing storm-recovery bonds pursuant to the securitization
provisions of the Florida Statutes and an FPSC financing order.  Four
hurricanes in 2005 and three hurricanes in 2004 caused major damage in parts of
FPL's service territory.  Storm restoration costs incurred by FPL
during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in FPL's funded storm and property
insurance reserve, resulting in a storm reserve deficiency.  In May
2007, the FPL subsidiary issued $652 million aggregate principal amount of
senior secured bonds (storm-recovery bonds), primarily for the after-tax
equivalent of the total of FPL's unrecovered balance of the 2004 storm
restoration costs, the 2005 storm restoration costs and approximately $200
million to reestablish FPL's storm and property insurance
reserve.  The storm-recovery bonds were issued in four tranches with
interest rates ranging from 5.0440% to 5.2555% and final maturity dates ranging
from 2013 to 2021.  Principal on the storm-recovery bonds is due on
the final maturity date (the date by which the principal must be repaid to
prevent a default) for each tranche, however, it began being paid semiannually
and sequentially February 1, 2008, when the first semiannual interest
payment became due.  See Note 13. 

In
connection with this financing, net proceeds, after debt issuance costs, to the
FPL subsidiary (approximately $644 million) were used to acquire the
storm-recovery property, which includes the right to impose, collect and receive
a storm-recovery charge from all customers receiving electric transmission or
distribution service from FPL under rate schedules approved by the FPSC or under
special contracts, certain other rights and interests that arise under the
financing order issued by the FPSC and certain other collateral pledged by the
FPL subsidiary that issued the bonds.  The storm-recovery bonds are
payable only from and secured by the storm-recovery property.  FPL, as
the servicer, collects storm-recovery charges on behalf of the subsidiary
through a surcharge to retail customers and remits them to the trustee under the
indenture pursuant to which the storm-recovery bonds were issued for payment of
fees and expenses and payment of principal and interest on the storm-recovery
bonds.  The revenues from the storm-recovery bonds surcharge and a
2004 storm damage surcharge through which FPL had been recovering underrecovered
2004 storm restoration costs prior to the issuance of these storm-recovery bonds
are included in operating revenues on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated
statements of income.  For the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, both the amount billed to retail customers related to the 2004
storm damage surcharge and/or the storm-recovery bonds surcharge amounted to
approximately $97 million, $94 million and $151 million,
respectively.  The FPL subsidiary is consolidated for financial
reporting purposes; however, the storm-recovery bonds do not constitute a debt,
liability or other legal obligation of, or interest in, FPL or any of its
affiliates other than the FPL subsidiary that issued the storm-recovery
bonds.  The assets of the FPL subsidiary that issued the
storm-recovery bonds, including the storm-recovery property, are not available
to pay creditors of FPL or any of its affiliates other than the subsidiary that
issued the storm-recovery bonds.  The consolidated assets of the VIE
were approximately $628 million and $676 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, and consisted primarily of storm-recovery property, which is
included in securitized storm-recovery costs on FPL Group's and FPL's balance
sheets. 

In
connection with this financing, the net proceeds to FPL from the sale of the
storm-recovery property were used primarily to reimburse FPL for its estimated
net of tax storm reserve deficiency as of May 31, 2007 (approximately $517
million) and provide for a storm and property insurance reserve fund of
approximately $127 million net of tax.  Securities held in the storm
and property insurance reserve fund are carried at market value with market
adjustments resulting in a corresponding adjustment to the storm and property
insurance reserve.  Fund earnings, net of taxes, are reinvested in the
fund.  The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes
are included in accumulated deferred income taxes.  The storm and
property insurance reserve fund is included in special use funds on FPL Group's
and FPL's consolidated balance sheets and was approximately $123 million and
$129 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Upon
the issuance of the storm-recovery bonds, the storm reserve deficiency was
reclassified to securitized storm-recovery costs on FPL Group's and FPL's
consolidated balance sheets.  As storm-recovery charges are billed to
customers, the securitized storm-recovery costs are amortized, the amount of
which is included in storm cost amortization on FPL Group's and FPL's
consolidated statements of income. 

The
storm and property insurance reserve of approximately $200 million that was
reestablished in the FPSC financing order is not reflected in FPL Group's and
FPL's consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 or 2007 because
the associated regulatory asset does not meet the specific recognition criteria
under FAS 71.  As a result, the storm and property insurance reserve
will be recognized as a regulatory liability as the storm-recovery charges are
billed to customers and charged to storm cost amortization on FPL Group's and
FPL's consolidated statements of income.  Although FPL Group's and
FPL's consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 reflect a storm
and property insurance reserve of less than $1 million (included in regulatory
liabilities   other on FPL Group's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets), FPL
has the capacity to absorb up to approximately $188 million in future prudently
incurred storm restoration costs without seeking recovery through a rate
adjustment from the FPSC. 

In 2006,
when considering FPL's petition to recover 2005 storm costs, the FPSC applied a
different standard for recovery of 2005 costs than was used for recovery of the
2004 storm costs.  These adjustments and disallowances, net of
interest income, reduced FPL Group's and FPL's net income for the year ended
December 31, 2006 by approximately $27 million. 

82 

FPL
identified two potential VIEs, both of which are considered qualifying
facilities as defined by the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as
amended (PURPA).  PURPA requires FPL to purchase the electricity
output of the projects.  FPL entered into a power purchase agreement
(PPA) with one of the projects in 1990 to purchase substantially all of the
project's electrical output over a substantial portion of its estimated useful
life.  For each megawatt-hour (mwh) provided, FPL pays a per mwh price
(energy payment) based upon FPL's avoided cost, which was determined at the time
the PPA was executed, and was based on the cost of avoiding the construction and
operation of a coal unit.  The energy component is primarily based on
the cost of coal at an FPL jointly-owned coal-fired
facility.  The avoided cost is the incremental cost to the utility of
the electric energy or capacity, or both, which is avoided by neither generating
the electricity nor purchasing it from another source.  The project
has a capacity of 250 mw.  After making exhaustive efforts, FPL was
unable to obtain the information from the project necessary to determine whether
the project is a VIE or whether FPL is the primary beneficiary of the
project.  The PPA with the project contains no provision which legally
obligates the project to release this information to FPL.  The energy
payments paid by FPL will fluctuate as coal prices change.  This does
not expose FPL to losses since the energy payments paid by FPL to the project
are passed on to FPL's customers through the fuel clause as approved by the
FPSC.  Notwithstanding the fact that FPL's energy payments are
recovered through the fuel clause, if the project was determined to be a VIE,
the absorption of some of the project's fuel price variability might cause FPL
to be considered the primary beneficiary.  During the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, FPL purchased 1,725,798 mwh, 1,694,810
mwh and 1,672,106 mwh, respectively, from the project at a total cost of
approximately $158 million, $153 million and $147 million,
respectively.  FPL will continue to make exhaustive efforts to obtain
the necessary information from the project in order to determine if it is a VIE
and, if so, whether FPL is the primary beneficiary.  FPL also entered
into a PPA with a 330 mw coal-fired cogeneration facility (the Facility) in 1995
to purchase substantially all of the Facility's electrical output through
2025.  During the fourth quarter of 2007, a change in ownership of the
Facility occurred, triggering the need to reevaluate whether the Facility is
still a VIE and, if so, whether FPL is the Facility's primary
beneficiary.  After making exhaustive efforts, FPL was unable to
obtain the information necessary to perform this reevaluation.  The
PPA with the Facility contains no provisions which legally obligate the Facility
to release this information to FPL.  During the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, FPL purchased 2,317,345 mwh, 2,320,991
mwh and 2,090,088 mwh, respectively, from the Facility at a total cost of
approximately $227 million, $220 million and $200 million,
respectively.  Additionally, the PPA does not expose FPL to losses
since the energy payments made by FPL to the Facility are passed on to FPL's
customers through the fuel clause as approved by the FPSC.  FPL will
continue to make exhaustive efforts to obtain the necessary information from the
Facility in order to determine if it is still a VIE and, if so, whether FPL is
the Facility's primary beneficiary. 

FPL Group    In 2004, a trust
created by FPL Group sold 12 million 5 7/8% preferred trust securities to the
public and common trust securities to FPL Group.  The trust is
considered a VIE because FPL Group's investment through the common trust
securities is not considered equity at risk in accordance with FIN
46(R).  The proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common trust
securities were used to buy 5 7/8% junior subordinated debentures maturing in
March 2044 from FPL Group Capital.  The trust exists only to issue its
preferred trust securities and common trust securities and to hold the junior
subordinated debentures of FPL Group Capital as trust assets.  Since
FPL Group, as the common security holder, is not considered to have equity at
risk and will therefore not absorb any variability of the trust, FPL Group is
not the primary beneficiary and does not consolidate the trust in accordance
with FIN 46(R).  FPL Group includes the junior subordinated debentures
issued by FPL Group Capital on its consolidated balance sheets.  The
junior subordinated debentures are FPL Group's maximum exposure to
loss.  See Note 11   FPL Group and Note 13. 

10.  Financial
Instruments 

The
carrying amounts of cash equivalents, notes payable and commercial paper
approximate their fair values.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
other investments of FPL Group, not included in the table below, included
financial instruments of approximately $39 million and $30 million,
respectively, which primarily consist of notes receivable that are carried at
estimated fair value or cost, which approximates fair value.  See
Note 11. 

The
following estimates of the fair value of financial instruments have been made
using available market information.  However, the use of different
market assumptions or methods of valuation could result in different estimated
fair values. 

83 

____________________ 

(a) 

Based
      on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. 

(b) 

Classified
      as held to maturity, of which $500 million is carried at cost which
      approximates fair value, and the balance is based on market prices
      provided by external sources.  Additionally, includes maturity
      dates ranging from 2014 to 2033. 

(c) 

Based
      on market prices modeled internally. 

(d) 

Based
      on market prices provided by external
sources. 

Special Use Funds and Other
Investments    The special use funds consist of FPL's storm fund assets
and FPL Group's and FPL's nuclear decommissioning fund
assets.  Securities held in the special use funds and other
investments in debt and equity securities are carried at estimated fair value
based on quoted market prices.  FPL Group's nuclear decommissioning
funds consist of approximately 38% equity securities and 62% municipal,
government, corporate and mortgage- and other asset-backed debt securities (32%
and 68% for FPL, respectively) with a weighted-average maturity at
December 31, 2008 of approximately six years at FPL Group and seven years
at FPL.  FPL's storm fund primarily consists of municipal debt
securities with a weighted-average maturity of approximately three
years.  The cost of securities sold is determined on the specific
identification method. 

The
approximate realized gains and losses and proceeds from the sale of available
for sale securities are as follows: 

The
unrealized gains on available for sale securities are as follows: 

Regulations
issued by the FERC and the NRC provide general risk management guidelines to
protect nuclear decommissioning trust funds and to allow such funds to earn a
reasonable return.  The FERC regulations prohibit investments in any
securities of FPL Group or its subsidiaries, affiliates or associates, excluding
investments tied to market indices or other mutual funds.  Similar
restrictions applicable to the decommissioning trust funds for NextEra Energy
Resources' nuclear plants are contained in the NRC operating licenses for those
facilities or in NRC regulations applicable to NRC licensees not in
cost-of-service environments.  With respect to the decommissioning
trust fund for NextEra Energy Resources' Seabrook nuclear plant, decommissioning
trust fund contributions and withdrawals are also regulated by the NDFC pursuant
to New Hampshire law. 

84 

The
nuclear decommissioning reserve funds are managed by investment managers who
must comply with the guidelines and rules of the applicable regulatory
authorities, FPL Group and FPL.  The funds' assets are invested in
order to optimize the after-tax earnings of these funds, giving consideration to
liquidity, risk, diversification and other prudent investment
objectives. 

Interest Rate and Foreign Currency
Swaps    FPL Group and its subsidiaries use a combination of fixed rate
and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure.  Interest
rate swaps are used to adjust and mitigate interest rate exposure when deemed
appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing
agreements.  In addition, FPL Group Capital entered into a cross
currency basis swap to hedge against currency movements with respect to both
interest and principal payments on a loan.  At December 31, 2008,
the estimated fair value for FPL Group interest rate and foreign currency swaps
was as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Three-month
      London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.18896% 

(b) 

Three-month
      LIBOR 

(c) 

Six-month
      LIBOR 

(d) 

Three-month
      LIBOR plus 2.14% 

(e) 

Three-month
      Japanese yen LIBOR plus 1.75% 

In
January 2009, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources
entered into an interest rate swap agreement to pay a fixed rate of 2.5775%,
plus applicable margin, to limit cash flow exposure on its Canadian $94.6
million (US $75.4 million) limited-recourse senior secured variable rate term
loan agreement maturing in 2023.  Also, in January 2009, another
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources entered into an
interest rate swap agreement to pay a fixed rate of 2.68%, plus applicable
margin, until 2016 on its $373 million variable rate limited-recourse senior
secured note that is partially amortizing with a balloon payment due in
2016.  This same wholly-owned subsidiary entered into a second
interest rate swap agreement to pay a fixed rate of 3.725%, plus applicable
margin, beginning in 2016 to limit the cash flow exposure of refinancing the
balloon payment of approximately $124 million due on this note in
2016. 

11.  Investments
in Partnerships and Joint Ventures 

NextEra Energy Resources      NextEra Energy
Resources has non-controlling non-majority owned interests in various
partnerships and joint ventures, essentially all of which are electricity
producers.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, NextEra Energy
Resources' investment in partnerships and joint ventures totaled approximately
$189 million and $216 million, respectively, which is included in other
investments on FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets.  NextEra
Energy Resources' interest in these partnerships and joint ventures range from
approximately 5.5% to 50%.  At December 31, 2008, the principal
operating entities included in NextEra Energy Resources' investments in
partnerships and joint ventures were Northeast Energy, LP, Mojave 16/17/18 LLC,
Luz Solar Partners Ltd., V, Luz Solar Partners Ltd., III, and TPC Windfarms LLC
and in 2007 also included Luz Solar Partners Ltd., IX. 

85 

Summarized
combined information for these principal entities is as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

The
      majority of the difference between the investment carrying amount and the
      underlying equity in net assets is being amortized over the remaining life
      of the investee's assets. 

Certain
subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources provide services to the
partnerships and joint ventures, including operations and maintenance and
business management services.  FPL Group's operating revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 include approximately $21
million, $20 million and $20 million, respectively, related to such
services.  The net receivables at December 31, 2008 and 2007, for
these services, as well as for affiliate energy commodity transactions, payroll
and other payments made on behalf of these investees, were approximately $33
million and $31 million, respectively, and are included in other current assets
on FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets. 

Notes
receivable (long- and short-term) include approximately $24 million and $33
million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, due from partnerships
and joint ventures in which NextEra Energy Resources has an ownership
interest.  Approximately $11 million of the notes receivable balance
at December 31, 2008 mature in 2011 and bear interest at a fixed rate of
8.5%.  The remaining $13 million mature in 2014 and bear interest at a
variable rate which averaged approximately 13.4% in 2008.  The notes
receivable balance at December 31, 2007 mature in 2008 through 2011 and the
majority bear interest at a variable rate which averaged approximately 15.3% in
2007.  Interest income related to notes receivable totaled
approximately $4 million, $4 million and $2 million for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is included in interest
income in FPL Group's consolidated statements of income.  Interest
receivable associated with these notes as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was
not material. 

Sale   of Differential Membership
Interests    In December 2007, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of
NextEra Energy Resources sold its Class B membership interests in a subsidiary
that owns five wind facilities totaling 598 mw of wind generation for
approximately $705 million.  In exchange for the cash received, the
holders of the Class B membership interests will receive a portion of the
economic attributes of the facilities, including tax attributes, for a variable
period.  Recognition of the proceeds from the sale of the differential
membership interests was deferred and is recorded in other liabilities on FPL
Group's consolidated balance sheets.  The deferred amount totaled $706
million and $704 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and
is being recognized as an adjustment to operating expenses as the members
receive their portion of the economic attributes.  FPL Group continues
to operate and manage the wind facilities, and consolidates the entity that owns
the wind facilities. 

FPL Group    In 2004, a trust
created by FPL Group sold $300 million of preferred trust securities to the
public and $9 million of common trust securities to FPL Group.  The
trust is an unconsolidated 100%-owned finance subsidiary.  The trust
used the proceeds to purchase $309 million of 5 7/8% junior subordinated
debentures maturing in March 2044 from FPL Group Capital.  FPL Group
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the preferred trust securities and the
junior subordinated debentures. 

86 

12.    Common and Preferred
Stock  

Earnings Per Share    The
reconciliation of FPL Group's basic and diluted earnings per share of common
stock is as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Performance
      share awards are included in diluted weighted-average number of shares
      outstanding based upon what would be issued if the end of the reporting
      period was the end of the term of the award.  Restricted stock,
      performance share awards, options and warrants are included in diluted
      weighted-average number of common shares outstanding by applying the
      treasury stock method. 

Restricted
stock, performance share awards and common shares issuable upon the exercise of
stock options which were not included in the denominator above due to their
antidilutive effect were approximately 0.5 million, 0.2 million and 0.3 million
for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

On
January 1, 2009, FPL Group adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging Issues
Task Force (EITF) No. 03-6-1 (FSP EITF 03-6-1), "Determining Whether Instruments
Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating
Securities."  FSP EITF 03-6-1 requires companies to treat unvested
share-based payment awards that have non-forfeitable rights to dividends or
dividend equivalents as participating securities.  Therefore, these
participating securities must be included in the computation of earnings per
share, pursuant to the two-class method described in FAS 128, "Earnings Per
Share."  The effect of the retrospective application of FSP EITF
03-6-1 will be a reduction of less than $0.01 per share on FPL Group's earnings
per share, assuming dilution, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006. 

Common Stock Dividend
Restrictions    FPL Group's charter does not limit the dividends that may
be paid on its common stock.  FPL's mortgage securing FPL's first
mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the
payment of dividends and other distributions to FPL Group.  These
restrictions do not currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL
Group. 

Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
  The employee retirement savings plans of FPL Group include a leveraged ESOP
feature.  Shares of common stock held by the trust for the employee
retirement savings plans (Trust) are used to provide all or a portion of the
employers' matching contributions.  Dividends received on all shares,
along with cash contributions from the employers, are used to pay principal and
interest on an ESOP loan held by a subsidiary of FPL Group
Capital.  Dividends on shares allocated to employee accounts and used
by the Trust for debt service are replaced with shares of common stock, at
prevailing market prices, in an equivalent amount.  For purposes of
computing basic and fully diluted earnings per share, ESOP shares that have been
committed to be released are considered outstanding. 

ESOP-related
compensation expense of approximately $40 million, $35 million and $32 million
in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was recognized based on the fair value of
shares allocated to employee accounts during the period.  Interest
income on the ESOP loan is eliminated in consolidation.  ESOP-related
unearned compensation included as a reduction of common shareholders' equity at
December 31, 2008 was approximately $100 million, representing unallocated
shares at the original issue price.  The fair value of the
ESOP-related unearned compensation account using the closing price of FPL Group
common stock at December 31, 2008 was approximately $348
million. 

87 

Stock-Based Compensation   
FPL Group accounts for share-based payment transactions based on grant-date fair
value in accordance with FAS 123(R).  Net income for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 includes approximately $47 million, $39
million and $34 million, respectively, of compensation costs and $18 million,
$15 million and $13 million, respectively, of income tax benefits related to
stock-based compensation arrangements.  Compensation cost capitalized
as part of the cost of an asset for the year ended December 31, 2008 was
approximately $2 million.  No compensation cost was capitalized in the
years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.  As of December 31,
2008, there were approximately $62 million of unrecognized compensation costs
related to nonvested/nonexercisable share-based compensation
arrangements.  These costs are expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.6 years.  For awards granted subsequent
to December 31, 2005, compensation costs for awards with graded vesting are
recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the
entire award.  For awards granted prior to that date, compensation
costs for awards with graded vesting are recognized using the graded vesting
attribution method. 

At
December 31, 2008, approximately 26 million shares of common stock were
authorized and approximately 15 million were available for awards (including
outstanding awards) to officers, employees and non-employee directors of FPL
Group and its subsidiaries under FPL Group's amended and restated long-term
incentive plan and non-employee directors stock plans.  FPL Group
satisfies restricted stock and performance share awards by issuing new shares of
its common stock or by purchasing shares of its common stock in the open
market.  FPL Group satisfies stock option exercises by issuing new
shares of its common stock and grants most of its stock options in the first
quarter of each year. 

Restricted
Stock and Performance Share Awards     Restricted stock
typically vests within three years after the date of grant and is subject to,
among other things, restrictions on transferability prior to
vesting.  The fair value of restricted stock is measured based upon
the closing market price of FPL Group common stock as of the date of
grant.  Performance share awards are typically payable at the end of a
three-year performance period if the specified performance criteria are
met.  The fair value of performance share awards is estimated based
upon the closing market price of FPL Group common stock as of the date of grant
less the present value of expected dividends, multiplied by an estimated
performance multiple determined on the basis of historical experience, which is
subsequently trued up at vesting based on actual performance. 

The
activity in restricted stock and performance share awards for the year ended
December 31, 2008 was as follows: 

The
weighted-average grant date fair value per share of restricted stock granted for
the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $61.08 and $41.98,
respectively.  The weighted-average grant date fair value per share of
performance share awards granted for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
2006 was $45.04 and $34.08, respectively. 

The
total fair value of restricted stock and performance share awards vested was $64
million, $51 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. 

88 

Options
  Options typically vest within three years after the date of grant and have a
maximum term of ten years.  The exercise price of each option granted
equals the closing market price of FPL Group common stock on the date of
grant.  The fair value of the options is estimated on the date of the
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and based on the following
assumptions: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Based
      on historical experience. 

(b) 

FPL
      Group uses the "simplified" method to calculate the expected
      term. 

Option
activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 was as follows: 

The
weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $9.90, $10.96 and
$7.46 per share for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised
was approximately $17 million, $26 million and $21 million for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Cash
received from option exercises was approximately $14 million, $23 million and
$34 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  The tax benefits realized from options exercised were
approximately $6 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Continuous Offering of FPL Group
Common Stock   - 
In January 2009, FPL Group entered into an agreement under which FPL Group may
offer and sell, from time to time, FPL Group common stock having a gross sales
price of up to $400 million.  As of February 26, 2009, FPL Group
had received proceeds of approximately $40 million through the issuance of
common stock under this agreement consisting of 760,000 shares at an average
price of $52.10 per share. 

Other    In 2005, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group completed the acquisition of Gexa Corp., a
retail electric provider in Texas.  Each share of Gexa Corp.'s
outstanding common stock was converted into 0.1682 of a share of FPL Group
common stock.  Assuming the exercise of Gexa Corp.'s options and
warrants net of cash to be received upon exercise, the aggregate value of the
consideration for the acquisition of Gexa Corp. was approximately $73 million,
payable in shares of FPL Group common stock.  At December 31,
2008, there were Gexa Corp. options and warrants outstanding for a total of
49,030 shares of FPL Group common stock. 

Preferred Stock    FPL Group's
charter authorizes the issuance of 100 million shares of serial preferred stock,
$0.01 par value, none of which are outstanding.  FPL's charter
authorizes the issuance of 10,414,100 shares of preferred stock, $100 par value;
5 million shares of subordinated preferred stock, no par value and 5 million
shares of preferred stock, no par value, none of which are
outstanding. 

89 

13.  Debt 

Long-term
debt consists of the following: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Principal
      on the storm-recovery bonds is due on the final maturity date (the date by
      which the principal must be repaid to prevent a default) for each tranche,
      however, it began being paid semiannually and sequentially on February 1,
      2008, when the first semiannual interest payment became
    due. 

(b) 

Tax
      exempt bonds that permit individual bond holders to tender the bonds for
      purchase at any time prior to maturity.  In the event bonds are
      tendered for purchase, they would be remarketed by a designated
      remarketing agent in accordance with the related indenture.  If the
      remarketing is unsuccessful, FPL would be required to purchase the tax
      exempt bonds.  As of December 31, 2008, all tax exempt
      bonds tendered for purchase have been successfully remarketed.  FPL's
      bank revolving lines of credit are available to support the purchase of
      tax exempt bonds. 

(c) 

Variable
      rate is based on an underlying index plus a margin.  Interest
      rate swap agreements have been entered into for some of these debt
      issuances.  See
Note 10. 

Minimum
annual maturities of long - term debt for FPL Group are
approximately $1,388 million, $547 million, $2,133 million, $391 million and
$1,098 million for 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.  The
respective amounts for FPL are approximately $263 million, $42 million, $45
million, $48 million and $452 million. 

At
December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, commercial paper and
short-term borrowings had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.10% and 4.39%
for FPL Group (0.92% and 4.41% for FPL), respectively.  Available
lines of credit aggregated approximately $6.5 billion ($4.0 billion for FPL
Group Capital and $2.5 billion for FPL) at December 31, 2008 and were
available to support FPL's and FPL Group Capital's commercial paper
programs.  These facilities provide for the issuance of letters of
credit of up to $6.5 billion.  The issuance of letters of credit is
subject to the aggregate commitment under the applicable
facility.  While no direct borrowings were outstanding at
December 31, 2008, letters of credit totaling $316 million and $545 million
were outstanding under the FPL Group Capital and FPL credit facilities,
respectively. 

FPL
Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including
most of those under FPL Group Capital's debt, including all of its debentures
and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its
guarantees.  FPL Group Capital has guaranteed certain debt and other
obligations of NextEra Energy Resources and its subsidiaries. 

90 

In June
2002, FPL Group sold 10.12 million 8% Corporate Units.  In connection
with the 8% Corporate Units financing, FPL Group Capital issued $506 million
principal amount of 5% debentures due February 16, 2008, which were absolutely,
irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed by FPL Group.  During 2005,
FPL Group Capital remarketed these debentures and the annual interest rate was
reset to 5.551%.  Each 8% Corporate Unit initially consisted of a $50
FPL Group Capital debenture and a purchase contract pursuant to which the holder
was required to purchase $50 of FPL Group common shares on or before
February 16, 2006, and FPL Group made payments of 3% of each unit's $50
stated value until the shares were purchased.  In February 2006, FPL
Group paid approximately $48 million net to cancel approximately 4.2 million of
its 8% Corporate Units.  Also in February 2006, FPL Group issued
approximately 8.7 million shares of common stock in return for approximately
$296 million in proceeds upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued
in connection with the remainder of the 8% Corporate Units. 

Prior to
the issuance of FPL Group's common stock, the purchase contracts were reflected
in FPL Group's diluted earnings per share calculations using the treasury stock
method.  Under this method, the number of shares of FPL Group common
stock used in calculating diluted earnings per share was deemed to be increased
by the excess, if any, of the number of shares that would be issued upon
settlement of the purchase contracts over the number of shares that could be
purchased by FPL Group in the market, at the average market price during the
period, using the proceeds receivable upon settlement. 

Subsidiaries
of FPL Group had the following debt issuances and borrowings from
January 1, 2009 through February 26, 2009: 

Date
      Issued 

Company 

Debt
      Issued 

Interest 

                  Rate(s) 

Principal 

                  Amount 

Maturity 

                  Date(s) 

(millions) 

January
      2009 

NextEra
      Energy Resources subsidiary 

Canadian
      dollar denominated limited-recourse senior secured term
    loan 

variable 

$ 

75 

2023 

January
      2009 

FPL
      Group Capital 

Term
      loan 

variable 

$ 

72 

2011 

14.  Asset
Retirement Obligations 

FPL
Group and FPL each account for AROs and conditional AROs under FAS 143 and FIN
47.  FAS 143 and FIN 47 require that a liability for the fair value of
an ARO be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if it can be
reasonably estimated, with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs
capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived
assets.  The asset retirement cost is subsequently allocated to
expense using a systematic and rational method over its useful
life.  Changes in the ARO resulting from the passage of time are
recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the liability and as
accretion expense, which is included in depreciation and amortization expense in
the consolidated statements of income.  Changes resulting from
revisions to the timing or amount of the original estimate of cash flows are
recognized as an increase or a decrease in the asset retirement cost and
ARO. 

FPL
Group and FPL have identified but not recognized ARO liabilities related to
electric transmission and distribution and telecommunications assets resulting
from easements over property not owned by FPL Group or FPL.  In
addition, FPL Group has identified but not recognized ARO liabilities related to
the majority of NextEra Energy Resources' hydro facilities.  These
easements are generally perpetual and, along with the hydro facilities, only
require retirement action upon abandonment or cessation of use of the property
or facility for its specified purpose.  The ARO liability is not
estimable for such easements and hydro facilities as FPL Group and FPL intend to
use these properties and facilities indefinitely.  In the event FPL
Group and FPL decide to abandon or cease the use of a particular easement and/or
hydro facility, an ARO liability would be recorded at that time. 

FPL's
ARO relates primarily to the nuclear decommissioning obligation of its nuclear
units.  FPL's AROs other than nuclear decommissioning are not
significant.  The provisions of FAS 143 and FIN 47 result in timing
differences in the recognition of legal asset retirement costs for financial
reporting purposes and the method the FPSC allows FPL to recover in
rates.  Accordingly, any differences between the ongoing expense
recognized under FAS 143 and FIN 47 and the amount recoverable through rates are
deferred in accordance with FAS 71.  See Note 1   Decommissioning
of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal
Costs. 

NextEra
Energy Resources' ARO relates primarily to the nuclear decommissioning
obligation of its nuclear plants and obligations for the dismantlement of its
wind facilities located on leased property.  See Note 1  
Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlements of Plants and Other Accrued
Asset Removal Costs. 

91 

A
rollforward of FPL Group's and FPL's ARO from December 31, 2006 to
December 31, 2008 is as follows: 

Restricted
trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPL Group's
and FPL's nuclear units included in special use funds on FPL Group's and FPL's
consolidated balance sheets are as follows (see Note 10): 

15.  Commitments
and Contingencies 

Commitments    FPL Group and
its subsidiaries have made commitments in connection with a portion of their
projected capital expenditures.  Capital expenditures at FPL include,
among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional
facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital
improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities.  At NextEra
Energy Resources, capital expenditures include, among other things, the cost,
including capitalized interest, for construction of wind projects and the
procurement of nuclear fuel.  FPL FiberNet's capital expenditures
primarily include costs to meet customer-specific requirements and sustain its
fiber-optic network. 

92 

At
December 31, 2008, planned capital expenditures for 2009 through 2013 were
estimated as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      AFUDC of approximately $63 million, $53 million, $32 million and $4
      million in 2009 to 2012, respectively. 

(b) 

Includes
      land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration
      and licensing. 

(c) 

Includes
      pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to the pretax AFUDC
      rate) on construction costs recoverable through the capacity clause of
      approximately $72 million, $201 million, $323 million, $50 million and $19
      million in 2009 to 2013, respectively. 

(d) 

Excludes
      capital expenditures of approximately $2.2 billion for the modernization
      of the Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants for the period from
      early-2010 (when approval by the Florida Power Plant Siting Board (Siting
      Board), comprised of the Florida governor and cabinet is expected) through
      2013.  Also excludes construction costs of approximately $2.5
      billion during the period 2012 to 2013 for the two additional nuclear
      units at FPL's Turkey Point site.  Construction costs will not begin
      until license approval is received from the NRC, which is expected in
      2012. 

(e) 

Includes
      capital expenditures for new wind projects that have been identified and
      related transmission.  NextEra Energy Resources expects to add
      approximately 1,100 mw in 2009 and 1,000 mw to 2,000 mw of new wind
      generation per year from 2010 through 2012, subject to, among other
      things, continued public policy support, which includes, but is not
      limited to, support for the construction and availability of sufficient
      transmission facilities and capacity, and access to reasonable capital and
      credit markets.  The cost of the planned wind additions for the
      2010 through 2012 period is estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion to
      $4.5 billion in each year, which is not included in the table
      above. 

(f) 

Includes
      nuclear fuel. 

FPL
Group has guaranteed certain payment obligations of FPL Group Capital, including
most payment obligations under FPL Group Capital's debt and
guarantees.  FPL Group and FPL each account for payment guarantees and
related contracts, for which it or a subsidiary is the guarantor, under FIN 45,
which requires that the fair value of guarantees provided to unconsolidated
entities entered into after December 31, 2002 be recorded on the balance
sheet.  At December 31, 2008, subsidiaries of FPL Group, other
than FPL, have guaranteed debt service payments relating to agreements that
existed at December 31, 2002.  The terms of the guarantees are
equal to the terms of the related debt, with remaining terms ranging from 1 year
to 10 years.  The maximum potential amount of future payments that
could be required under these guarantees at December 31, 2008 was
approximately $17 million.  At December 31, 2008, FPL Group did
not have any liabilities recorded for these guarantees.  In certain
instances, FPL Group can seek recourse from third parties for 50% of any amount
paid under the guarantees.  Guarantees provided to unconsolidated
entities entered into subsequent to December 31, 2002, and the related fair
value, were not material as of December 31, 2008. 

Certain
subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources have contracts that require certain
projects to meet annual minimum generation amounts.  Failure to meet
the annual minimum generation amounts would result in the NextEra Energy
Resources subsidiary becoming liable for liquidated damages.  Based on
past performance of these and similar projects and current forward prices,
management believes that it is unlikely to experience a material exposure as a
result of these liquidated damages. 

93 

Contracts    In addition to
the planned capital expenditures included in the table in Commitments above, FPL
has commitments under long-term purchased power and fuel
contracts.  FPL is obligated under take-or-pay purchased power
contracts with JEA and with subsidiaries of The Southern Company (Southern
subsidiaries) to pay for approximately 1,300 mw of power annually through
mid-2010, approximately 1,330 mw annually from mid-2010 to mid-2015 and 375 mw
annually thereafter through 2021, and one of the Southern subsidiaries'
contracts is subject to minimum quantities.  FPL also has various firm
pay-for-performance contracts to purchase approximately 740 mw from certain
cogenerators and small power producers (qualifying facilities) with expiration
dates ranging from August 2009 through 2026.  The purchased power
contracts provide for capacity and energy payments.  Energy payments
are based on the actual power taken under these contracts.  Capacity
payments for the pay-for-performance contracts are subject to the qualifying
facilities meeting certain contract conditions.  FPL has various
agreements with several electricity suppliers to purchase an aggregate of up to
approximately 870 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from April 2009
through 2012.  In general, the agreements require FPL to make capacity
payments and supply the fuel consumed by the plants under the
contracts.  FPL has contracts with expiration dates through 2032 for
the purchase and transportation of natural gas and coal, and storage of natural
gas. 

NextEra
Energy Resources has entered into several contracts primarily for the purchase
of wind turbines and towers and related construction activities, approximately
$1.7 billion of which is included in the planned capital expenditures table in
Commitments above.  In addition, NextEra Energy Resources has
contracts primarily for the purchase, transportation and storage of natural gas
and firm transmission service with expiration dates ranging from 2009 through
2036, as well as for the supply, conversion, enrichment and fabrication of
nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from 2009 through 2018. 

The
required capacity and minimum payments under these contracts as of
December 31, 2008 were estimated as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

Capacity
      payments under these contracts, the majority of which are recoverable
      through the capacity clause, totaled approximately $584 million, $578
      million and $610 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
      2006, respectively. 

(b) 

Energy
      payments under these contracts, which are recoverable through the fuel
      clause, totaled approximately $510 million, $447 million and $421 million,
      respectively. 

(c) 

Recoverable
      through the fuel clause. 

(d) 

Includes
      termination payments primarily associated with wind turbine contracts
      beyond 2009. 

In
addition, FPL has entered into several long-term agreements for storage capacity
and transportation of natural gas from facilities that have not yet started
construction, or if started, have not yet completed
construction.  These agreements range from 15 to 25 years in length
and contain firm commitments by FPL totaling up to approximately $209 million
annually or $5.1 billion over the terms of the agreements.  These firm
commitments are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including
approval by the FERC and/or completion of construction of the facilities from
June 2009 to 2011. 

Insurance    Liability
for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the Price-Anderson Act,
which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance
available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment
plan.  In accordance with this Act, FPL Group maintains $300 million
of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and
participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to
$12.2 billion of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear
reactor in the United States.  Under the secondary financial
protection system, FPL Group is subject to retrospective assessments of up to
$940 million ($470 million for FPL), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at
any nuclear reactor in the United States, payable at a rate not to exceed $140
million ($70 million for FPL) per incident per year.  FPL Group and
FPL are contractually entitled to recover a proportionate share of such
assessments from the owners of minority interests in Seabrook, Duane Arnold and
St. Lucie Unit No. 2, which approximates $14 million, $35 million and $18
million, plus any applicable taxes, per incident, respectively. 

94 

FPL
Group participates in nuclear insurance mutual companies that provide $2.75
billion of limited insurance coverage per occurrence per site for property
damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning risks at its nuclear
plants.  The proceeds from such insurance, however, must first be used
for reactor stabilization and site decontamination before they can be used for
plant repair.  FPL Group also participates in an insurance program
that provides limited coverage for replacement power costs if a nuclear plant is
out of service for an extended period of time because of an
accident.  In the event of an accident at one of FPL Group's or
another participating insured's nuclear plants, FPL Group could be assessed up
to $177 million ($103 million for FPL), plus any applicable taxes, in
retrospective premiums.  FPL Group and FPL are contractually entitled
to recover a proportionate share of such assessments from the owners of minority
interests in Seabrook, Duane Arnold and St. Lucie Unit No. 2, which
approximates $2 million, $5 million and $4 million, plus any applicable taxes,
respectively. 

Due to
the high cost and limited coverage available from third-party insurers, FPL does
not have insurance coverage for a substantial portion of its transmission and
distribution property and FPL Group has no insurance coverage for FPL FiberNet's
fiber-optic cable located throughout Florida.  Should FPL's future
storm restoration costs exceed the reserve amount established through the May
2007 issuance of storm-recovery bonds, FPL may recover storm restoration costs,
subject to prudence review by the FPSC, either through securitization provisions
pursuant to Florida law or through surcharges approved by the FPSC. 

In the
event of a loss, the amount of insurance available might not be adequate to
cover property damage and other expenses incurred.  Uninsured losses
and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from customers in the case of
FPL, would be borne by FPL Group and FPL and could have a material adverse
effect on FPL Group's and FPL's financial condition and results of
operations. 

Legal and Regulatory
Proceedings    In November 1999, the Attorney General of the
United States, on behalf of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia against Georgia Power Company and other subsidiaries of The Southern
Company for certain alleged violations of the Prevention of Significant
Deterioration (PSD) provisions and the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)
of the Clean Air Act.  In May 2001, the EPA amended its complaint to
allege, among other things, that Georgia Power Company constructed and is
continuing to operate Scherer Unit No. 4, in which FPL owns a 76% interest,
without obtaining a PSD permit, without complying with NSPS requirements, and
without applying best available control technology for nitrogen oxides, sulfur
dioxides and particulate matter as required by the Clean Air Act.  It
also alleges that unspecified major modifications have been made at Scherer Unit
No. 4 that require its compliance with the aforementioned Clean Air Act
provisions.  The EPA seeks injunctive relief requiring the
installation of best available control technology and civil penalties of up to
$25,000 per day for each violation from an unspecified date after June 1,
1975 through January 30, 1997 and $27,500 per day thereafter for each
violation.  The EPA further revised its civil penalty rule in
February 2004, such that the maximum penalty is $32,500 per day for each
violation after March 15, 2004.  Georgia Power Company has
answered the amended complaint, asserting that it has complied with all
requirements of the Clean Air Act, denying the plaintiff's allegations of
liability, denying that the plaintiff is entitled to any of the relief that it
seeks and raising various other defenses.  In June 2001, a
federal district court stayed discovery and administratively closed the case and
the EPA has not yet moved to reopen the case.  In April 2007, the
U.S. Supreme Court in a separate unrelated case rejected an argument that a
"major modification" occurs at a plant only when there is a resulting increase
in the hourly rate of air emissions.  Georgia Power Company has made a
similar argument in defense of its case, but has other factual and legal
defenses that are unaffected by the Supreme Court's decision. 

In
August 2001, Florida Municipal Power Agency (FMPA) filed a petition for review
with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (DC Circuit) asking
the DC Circuit to reverse and remand orders of the FERC denying FMPA's request
for certain credits for transmission facilities owned by FMPA
members.  This matter arose from a 1993 FPL filing of a comprehensive
restructuring of its then-existing tariff structure.  All issues in
this case have been closed except for FMPA's request for exclusions from FPL's
transmission rates of the costs of FPL's facilities that fail to meet the same
integration test that was used to deny credits for certain FMPA facilities
(integration test).  In May 2004, FPL made a compliance filing with
the FERC of a proposed rate schedule that does not include those FPL facilities
that fail to meet the same integration test.  In January 2005, the
FERC issued an order on FPL's compliance filing and required FPL to make an
additional compliance filing removing the cost of all radial transmission lines
from transmission rates, analyzing the FPL transmission system to remove the
cost of any transmission facilities that provide only "unneeded redundancy," and
calculating rate adjustments using 1993 data rather than 1998
data.  FPL made this compliance filing in April 2005, under which
FPL's current rate would be reduced by $0.04 per kilowatt (kw) per
month.  In May 2005, FMPA protested FPL's compliance filing and argued
that FPL's rates should be reduced by an additional $0.20 per kw per
month.  Any reduction in FPL's network service rate also would apply
effective January 1, 2004 to Seminole Electric Cooperative Inc. (Seminole),
FPL's other network customer.  In February 2008, the FERC accepted
FPL's April 2005 compliance filing in full and, in March 2008, FPL issued
refunds of approximately $4 million to FMPA and $2 million to Seminole in
accordance with the FERC's February 2008 order.  Subsequently, FMPA
sought rehearing of the FERC's February 2008 order, which was denied by the FERC
in December 2008.  FMPA has sought review of the FERC's February 2008
order at the DC Circuit.  FMPA's position is that FPL's rates should
be reduced by an additional $0.20 per kw per month, which, if upheld, would
result in an additional refund obligation to FMPA of approximately $24 million,
and approximately $14 million to Seminole, at December 31,
2008. 

95 

In 1995
and 1996, FPL Group, through an indirect subsidiary, purchased from Adelphia
Communications Corporation (Adelphia) 1,091,524 shares of Adelphia common stock
and 20,000 shares of Adelphia preferred stock (convertible into 2,358,490 shares
of Adelphia common stock) for an aggregate price of approximately
$35,900,000.  On January 29, 1999, Adelphia repurchased all of
these shares for $149,213,130 in cash.  On June 24, 2004,
Adelphia, Adelphia Cablevision, L.L.C. and the Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors of Adelphia filed a complaint against FPL Group and its indirect
subsidiary in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York.  The complaint alleges that the repurchase of these shares by
Adelphia was a fraudulent transfer, in that at the time of the transaction
Adelphia (i) was insolvent or was rendered insolvent, (ii) did not receive
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the cash it paid, and (iii) was
engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which any property
remaining with Adelphia had unreasonably small capital.  The complaint
seeks the recovery for the benefit of Adelphia's bankruptcy estate of the cash
paid for the repurchased shares, plus interest.  FPL Group has filed
an answer to the complaint.  FPL Group believes that the complaint is
without merit because, among other reasons, Adelphia will be unable to
demonstrate that (i) Adelphia's repurchase of shares from FPL Group, which
repurchase was at the market value for those shares, was not for reasonably
equivalent value, (ii) Adelphia was insolvent at the time of the repurchase, or
(iii) the repurchase left Adelphia with unreasonably small
capital.  The case is in discovery and has been scheduled for trial in
June 2010. 

In
August 2003, Pedro C. and Emilia Roig brought an action on behalf of
themselves and their son, Pedro Anthony Roig, in the Circuit Court of the
Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida (the state
court), which was removed in October 2003 to the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Florida, against Aventis Pasteur and a number of other
named and unnamed drug manufacturing and distribution companies and FPL,
alleging that their son has suffered toxic neurological effects from mercury
poisoning.  The sources of mercury exposure are alleged to be vaccines
containing a preservative called thimerosal that were allegedly manufactured and
distributed by the drug companies, mercury amalgam dental fillings, and
emissions from FPL power plants in southeast Florida.  The complaint
includes counts against all defendants for civil battery and against FPL for
alleged negligence in operating the plants such that the son was exposed to
mercury and other heavy metals emissions.  The damages demanded from
FPL are for injuries and losses allegedly suffered by the son as a result of his
exposure to the plants' mercury emissions and the parents' alleged pain and
suffering, medical expenses, loss of wages, and loss of their son's services and
companionship.  No amount of damages is specified.  The U.S.
District Court remanded the action back to the state court.  The drug
manufacturing and distribution companies have moved to dismiss the
action.  Plaintiffs and FPL have agreed that FPL will not respond to
the complaint until requested by the plaintiffs. 

In
December 2003, Edward and Janis Shiflett brought an action on behalf of
themselves and their son, Phillip Benjamin Shiflett, in the Circuit Court of the
Eighteenth Judicial Circuit in and for Brevard County, Florida (the state
court), which was removed in January 2004 to the U.S. District Court for
the Middle District of Florida, against Aventis Pasteur and a number of other
named and unnamed drug manufacturing and distribution companies, FPL and the
Orlando Utilities Commission, alleging that their son has suffered toxic
neurological effects from mercury poisoning.  The allegations, counts
and damages demanded in the complaint with respect to FPL are virtually
identical to those contained in the Roig lawsuit described
above.  FPL's motion to dismiss the complaint was
denied.  The U.S. District Court subsequently remanded the action back
to the state court.  The state court subsequently dismissed the drug
manufacturing and distribution companies from the action.  Plaintiffs'
appeal of that order is pending before the Florida Fifth District Court of
Appeal.  Plaintiffs and FPL have agreed that FPL will not respond to
the complaint until requested by the plaintiffs. 

In
October 2004, TXU Portfolio Management Company (TXU) served FPL Energy
Pecos Wind I, LP, FPL Energy Pecos Wind I GP, LLC, FPL Energy Pecos Wind II, LP,
FPL Energy Pecos Wind II GP, LLC and Indian Mesa Wind Farm, LP (NextEra Energy
Resources Affiliates) as defendants in a civil action filed in the District
Court in Dallas County, Texas.  FPL Energy, LLC, now known as NextEra
Energy Resources, was added as a defendant in 2005.  The petition
alleged that the NextEra Energy Resources Affiliates had a contractual
obligation to produce and sell to TXU a minimum quantity of renewable energy
credits each year and that the NextEra Energy Resources Affiliates failed to
meet this obligation.  The plaintiff asserted claims for breach of
contract and declaratory judgment and sought damages of approximately $34
million.  The NextEra Energy Resources Affiliates filed their answer
and counterclaim in November 2004, denying the allegations.  The
counterclaim, as amended, asserted claims for conversion, breach of fiduciary
duty, breach of warranty, conspiracy, breach of contract and fraud and sought
termination of the contract and damages.  Following a jury trial in
June 2007, among other findings, both TXU and the NextEra Energy Resources
Affiliates were found to have breached the contract.  In August 2008,
the judge issued a final judgment pursuant to which the contract is not
terminated and neither party will recover any damages.  TXU has
appealed the final judgment to the Fifth District Court of Appeals in Dallas,
Texas. 

FPL
Group and FPL are vigorously defending, and believe that they or their
affiliates have meritorious defenses to, the lawsuits described
above.  While management is unable to predict with certainty the
outcome of these lawsuits, based on current knowledge it is not expected that
their ultimate resolution, individually or collectively, will have a material
adverse effect on the financial statements of FPL Group or FPL. 

96 

In
February 2008, a fault occurred at an FPL substation causing a system loss of
about 3,400 mw of generating capacity, which left approximately 596,000 FPL
customers without power.  Power was restored to approximately
two-thirds of affected customers within one hour and all customers were restored
within three hours.  FPL s investigation into the root cause of the
problem determined the fault occurred as a result of human error.  In
March 2008, the Florida Reliability Coordinating Council (FRCC) initiated an
investigation of the event and the FERC opened a nonpublic formal investigation
to determine whether the event involved any violations of mandatory reliability
standards.  The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC)
is participating in both investigations.  In November 2008, the FRCC s
event analysis team issued its final report on the outage, which did not
identify any potential violations of NERC reliability standards by
FPL.  FPL provided this report to the FERC staff conducting the FERC
investigation.  Following a period of fact finding and written
correspondence by and between FPL and the FERC enforcement staff, FPL and the
FERC staff have been engaged in discussions to determine whether the
investigation can be resolved by settlement. FPL believes that, absent
settlement, the FERC staff will pursue formal enforcement proceedings in which
FPL expects the FERC may assert up to 25 or more violations of the reliability
standards.  The statutory penalty for any violation of a reliability
standard is up to $1 million per day.  FPL believes that, in any such
enforcement proceeding, the FERC may assert that some of the alleged violations
have continued from January 1, 2008, or earlier. 

In
addition to the legal proceedings and regulatory investigations discussed above,
FPL Group and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are involved in other legal and
regulatory proceedings, actions and claims in the ordinary course of their
businesses.  Generating plants in which FPL Group or FPL have an
ownership interest are also involved in legal and regulatory proceedings,
actions and claims, the liabilities from which, if any, would be shared by FPL
Group or FPL.  In the event that FPL Group and FPL, or their
affiliates, do not prevail in these legal and regulatory proceedings, actions
and claims, there may be a material adverse effect on their financial
statements.  While management is unable to predict with certainty the
outcome of these legal and regulatory proceedings, actions and claims, based on
current knowledge it is not expected that their ultimate resolution,
individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on the
financial statements of FPL Group or FPL. 

16.  Segment
Information 

FPL
Group's reportable segments include FPL, a rate-regulated utility, and NextEra
Energy Resources, a competitive energy business.  Corporate and Other
represents other business activities, other segments that are not separately
reportable and eliminating entries.  FPL Group's operating revenues
derived from the sale of electricity represented approximately 96%, 98% and 97%
of FPL Group's operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006.  Less than 1% of operating revenues were from foreign
sources for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, less than 1% of long-lived
assets were located in foreign countries. 

FPL
Group's segment information is as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

NextEra
      Energy Resources' interest expense is based on a deemed capital structure
      of 50% debt for operating projects and 100% debt for projects under
      construction.  Residual non-utility interest expense is included
      in Corporate and Other. 

(b) 

Includes
      a $98 million ($60 million after-tax) impairment charge recorded at FPL
      FiberNet.  See Note 5   Corporate and Other. 

(c) 

Includes
      an Indonesian project gain of $97 million ($63 million
      after-tax). 

(d) 

NextEra
      Energy Resources' tax expense (benefit) includes PTCs that were recognized
      based on its tax sharing agreement with FPL Group.  See Note 1  
      Income Taxes. 

97 

17.  Summarized
Financial Information of FPL Group Capital 

FPL
Group Capital, a 100% owned subsidiary of FPL Group, provides funding for and
holds ownership interest in FPL Group's operating subsidiaries other than
FPL.  Most of FPL Group Capital's debt, including its debentures, and
payment guarantees are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by FPL
Group.  Condensed consolidating financial information is as
follows: 

Condensed
Consolidating Statements of Income 

____________________ 

(a) 

Represents
      FPL and consolidating adjustments. 

Condensed
Consolidating Balance Sheets 

____________________ 

(a) 

Represents
      FPL and consolidating adjustments. 

98 

Condensed
Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 

____________________ 

(a) 

Represents
      FPL and consolidating adjustments. 

99 

18.  Quarterly
Data (Unaudited) 

Condensed
consolidated quarterly financial information is as follows: 

____________________ 

(a) 

In
      the opinion of FPL Group and FPL, all adjustments, which consist of normal
      recurring accruals necessary to present a fair statement of the amounts
      shown for such periods, have been made.  Results of operations
      for an interim period generally will not give a true indication of results
      for the year. 

(b) 

The
      sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal the total for the year due to
      rounding. 

(c) 

The
      sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal the total for the year due to
      rounding and changes in weighted-average number of common shares
      outstanding. 

100 

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure 

None 

Item
9A.  Controls and Procedures 

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures 

As of
December 31, 2008, each of FPL Group and FPL had performed an evaluation,
under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including
FPL Group's and FPL's chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of
the effectiveness of the design and operation of each company's disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) or
15d-15(e)).  Based upon that evaluation, the chief executive officer
and chief financial officer of each of FPL Group and FPL concluded that the
company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting
them to material information relating to the company and its consolidated
subsidiaries required to be included in the company's reports filed or submitted
under the Exchange Act and ensuring that information required to be disclosed in
the company's reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated
and communicated to management, including its principal executive and principal
financial officers, to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.  FPL Group and FPL each have a Disclosure Committee, which
is made up of several key management employees and reports directly to the chief
executive officer and chief financial officer of each company, to monitor and
evaluate these disclosure controls and procedures.  Due to the
inherent limitations of the effectiveness of any established disclosure controls
and procedures, management of FPL Group and FPL cannot provide absolute
assurance that the objectives of their respective disclosure controls and
procedures will be met. 

Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting 

(a) 

Management's
      Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

                See
      Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

(b) 

Attestation
      Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

                See
      Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

(c) 

Changes
      in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

FPL
      Group and FPL are continuously seeking to improve the efficiency and
      effectiveness of their operations and of their internal
      controls.  This results in refinements to processes throughout
      FPL Group and FPL.  However, there has been no change in FPL
      Group's or FPL's internal control over financial reporting that occurred
      during FPL Group's and FPL's most recent fiscal quarter that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, FPL
      Group's or FPL's internal control over financial
  reporting. 

Item
9B.  Other Information 

None 

PART
III 

Item
10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance 

The
information required by this item will be included under the headings "Business
of the Annual Meeting," "Corporate Governance and Board Matters" and
"Information About FPL Group and Management" in FPL Group's Proxy Statement
which will be filed with the SEC in connection with the 2009 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (FPL Group's Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by
reference, or is included in Item 1. Business   Executive Officers of
FPL Group. 

Item
11.  Executive Compensation 

The
information required by this item will be included in FPL Group's Proxy
Statement under the headings "Executive Compensation" and "Corporate Governance
and Board Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters 

The
information required by this item will be included in FPL Group's Proxy
Statement under the heading "Business of the Annual Meeting" and "Information
About FPL Group and Management" and is incorporated herein by
reference. 

101 

Item
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence 

The
information required by this item, to the extent applicable, will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement under the heading "Corporate Governance and Board
Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

FPL
Group    The information required by this item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement under the heading "Audit-Related Matters" and is
incorporated herein by reference. 

FPL      The following table
presents fees billed for professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche
LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective
affiliates (collectively, Deloitte   Touche) for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007.  The amounts presented below reflect
allocations from FPL Group for FPL's portion of the fees, as well as amounts
billed directly to FPL. 

____________________ 

(a) 

Audit
      fees consist of fees billed for professional services rendered for the
      audit of FPL's and FPL Group's annual consolidated financial statements
      for the fiscal year, the reviews of the financial statements included in
      FPL's and FPL Group's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
      year and the audit of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
      reporting, comfort letters, consents, and other services related to SEC
      matters, services in connection with annual and semi-annual filings of FPL
      Group's financial statements with the Japanese Ministry of Finance and
      accounting consultations to the extent necessary for Deloitte   Touche
      to fulfill its responsibility under Public Company Accounting Oversight
      Board standards. 

(b) 

Audit-related
      fees consist of fees billed for assurance and related services that are
      reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of FPL's and
      FPL Group's consolidated financial statements and are not reported under
      audit fees.  These fees primarily related to audits of
      subsidiary financial statements, comfort letters, consents and other
      services related to subsidiary (non-SEC registrant) financing activities,
      audits of employee benefit plans and consultation on accounting standards
      and on transactions. 

(c) 

Tax
      fees consist of fees billed for professional services rendered for tax
      compliance, tax advice and tax planning.  In 2008 and 2007, all
      tax fees paid related to tax compliance services. 

(d) 

All
      other fees consist of fees for products and services other than the
      services reported under the other named categories.  In 2008 and
      2007, there were no other fees incurred in this
  category. 

In
accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley), FPL Group's Audit Committee's pre-approval policy for
services provided by the independent auditor to FPL and the Charter of the Audit
Committee, all services performed by Deloitte   Touche are approved in
advance by the Audit Committee.  Audit and audit-related services
specifically identified in an appendix to the pre-approval policy are
pre-approved by the Audit Committee each year.  This pre-approval
allows management to request the specified audit and audit-related services on
an as-needed basis during the year, provided any such services are reviewed with
the Audit Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting.  Any
audit or audit-related service for which the fee is expected to exceed $250,000,
or that involves a service not listed on the pre-approval list, must be
specifically approved by the Audit Committee prior to commencement of such
work.  In addition, the Audit Committee approves all services other
than audit and audit-related services performed by Deloitte   Touche in
advance of the commencement of such work or, in cases which meet the de minimus
pre-approval exception established by Sarbanes-Oxley, prior to completion of the
audit.  The Audit Committee has delegated to the chairman of the
committee the right to approve audit, audit-related, tax and other services,
within certain limitations, between meetings of the Audit Committee, provided
any such decision is presented to the Audit Committee at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.  The Audit Committee reviews on a quarterly basis a
schedule of all services for which Deloitte   Touche has been engaged and
the estimated fees for those services. 

102 

PART
IV 

Item
15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

Page(s) 

(a) 

1. 

Financial
      Statements 

Management's
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

51 

Attestation
      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

52 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

53 

FPL
      Group: 

Consolidated Statements of
      Income 

54 

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets 

55 

Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows 

56 

Consolidated Statements of
      Common Shareholders' Equity 

57 

FPL: 

Consolidated Statements of
      Income 

58 

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets 

59 

Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows 

60 

Consolidated Statements of
      Common Shareholder's Equity 

61 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements 

62-100 

2. 

Financial
      Statement Schedules   Schedules are omitted as not applicable or
      not required. 

3. 

Exhibits
      (including those incorporated by reference) 

103 

104 

105 

106 

107 

108 

____________________ 

      *
Incorporated herein by reference 

FPL
Group and FPL agree to furnish to the SEC upon request any instrument with
respect to long-term debt that FPL Group and FPL have not filed as an exhibit
pursuant to the exemption provided by Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation
S-K. 

109 

FPL
GROUP, INC. SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

FPL
Group, Inc. 

JAMES
      L. ROBO 

James
      L. Robo 

                President
      and Chief Operating Officer 

Date:  February
26, 2009 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated. 

Signature and Title as of
February 26, 2009:  

LEWIS
      HAY, III 

K.
      MICHAEL DAVIS 

Lewis
      Hay, III 

                Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer 

                and
      Director 

                (Principal
      Executive Officer) 

K.
      Michael Davis 

                Controller
      and Chief Accounting Officer 

                (Principal
      Accounting Officer) 

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                Executive
      Vice President, Finance 

                and
      Chief Financial Officer 

                (Principal
      Financial Officer) 

Directors: 

SHERRY
      S. BARRAT 

OLIVER
      D. KINGSLEY, JR. 

Sherry
      S. Barrat 

Oliver
      D. Kingsley, Jr. 

ROBERT
      M. BEALL, II 

RUDY
      E. SCHUPP 

Robert
      M. Beall, II 

Rudy
      E. Schupp 

J.
      HYATT BROWN 

MICHAEL
      H. THAMAN 

J.
      Hyatt Brown 

Michael
      H. Thaman 

JAMES
      L. CAMAREN 

HANSEL
      E. TOOKES, II 

James
      L. Camaren 

Hansel
      E. Tookes, II 

J.
      BRIAN FERGUSON 

PAUL
      R. TREGURTHA 

J.
      Brian Ferguson 

Paul
      R. Tregurtha 

TONI
      JENNINGS 

Toni
      Jennings 

110 

FLORIDA
POWER   LIGHT COMPANY SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

Florida
Power   Light Company 

ARMANDO
      J. OLIVERA 

Armando
      J. Olivera 

                President
      and Chief Executive Officer 

                and
      Director 

                (Principal
      Executive Officer) 

Date:  February
26, 2009 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated. 

Signature and Title as of
February   26  , 2009:  

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

K.
      MICHAEL DAVIS 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                Executive
      Vice President, Finance 

                and
      Chief Financial Officer and Director 

                (Principal
      Financial Officer) 

K.
      Michael Davis 

                Vice
      President, Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer 

                (Principal
      Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 

LEWIS
      HAY, III 

Lewis
      Hay, III 

JAMES
      L. ROBO 

James
      L. Robo 

ANTONIO
      RODRIGUEZ 

Antonio
      Rodriguez 

JOHN
      A. STALL 

John
      A. Stall 

EDWARD
      F. TANCER 

Edward
      F. Tancer 

111 

Supplemental
Information to be Furnished With Reports Filed Pursuant to Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act by Registrants Which Have Not Registered Securities Pursuant to
Section 12 of the Exchange Act 

No
annual report, proxy statement, form of proxy or other proxy soliciting material
has been sent to securities holders of FPL during the period covered by this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008. 

112 

<EX-3.(I)A>
 2
 exhibit3ia.htm
 EXHIBIT 3(I)A

exhibit3ia.htm 

Exhibit
3(i)a 

RESTATED
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION 

OF 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

ARTICLE
I 

Name 

The
name of the Corporation is FPL Group, Inc. 

ARTICLE
II 

Purpose 

The
purpose for which the Corporation is organized is the transaction of any or all
lawful business for which corporations may be incorporated under the Florida
General Corporation Act. 

ARTICLE
III 

Capital
Stock 

Section 1.     Authorized Capital
Stock.     The aggregate number of shares which the
Corporation is authorized to issue is 400,000,000 shares, consisting of
100,000,000 shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, and 300,000,000
shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value. 

Section 2.     Serial Preferred
Stock.     The Board of Directors is authorized at any
time, and from time to time, to provide for the issuance of shares of Serial
Preferred Stock in one or more series, and to determine the designations,
preferences, limitations and relative or other rights of the Serial Preferred
Stock or any series thereof. For each series, the Board of Directors shall
determine, by resolution or resolutions adopted prior to the issuance of any
shares thereof, the designations, preferences, limitations and relative or other
rights thereof, including but not limited to the following relative rights and
preferences, as to which there may be variations among different
series: 

A.
The rate and manner of payment of dividends, if any; 

B.
Whether shares may be redeemed and, if so, the redemption price and the terms
and conditions of redemption; 

C.
The amount payable upon shares in the event of liquidation, dissolution or other
winding up of the Corporation; 

D.
Sinking fund provisions, if any, for the redemption or purchase of
shares; 

E.
The terms and conditions, if any, on which shares may be converted or
exchanged; 

F.
Voting rights, if any; and 

G.
Any other rights and preferences of such shares, to the full extent now or
hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Florida. 

The
Board of Directors shall have the authority to determine the number of shares
that will comprise each series. 

Prior
to the issuance of any shares of a series, but after adoption by the Board of
Directors of the resolution establishing such series, the appropriate officers
of the Corporation shall file such documents with the State of Florida as may be
required by law. 

Section 3.     Common
Stock.     Each share of Common Stock shall entitle
the holder thereof to one vote, in person or by proxy, at any and all meetings
of the shareholders of the Corporation, on all propositions before such
meetings. Each share of Common Stock shall be entitled to participate equally in
such dividends as may be declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally
available therefor, and to participate equally in all distributions of assets
upon liquidation. 

Section 4.     Certain
Definitions.     For the purposes of these
Articles: 

"Preferred
Stock Designation" shall mean any designation of the preferences, limitations
and rights of any series of Serial Preferred Stock made pursuant to
Section 2 of this Article III. 

"Voting
Stock" shall mean all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. Each share of Voting
Stock shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to this
Article III or any Preferred Stock Designation. 

ARTICLE
IV 

Board
of Directors 

Section 1.     Number.     The
number of directors of the Corporation shall be as set forth in the
bylaws. 

Section 2.     Newly Created Directorships
and Vacancies.     Newly created directorships
resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any
vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation,
retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause shall be filled
only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, and directors so chosen
shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of
shareholders. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. 

Section 3.     Removal.     A
director may be removed by the majority vote of the entire Board of Directors. A
director may also be removed by shareholders, but only for cause and only by the
affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of the then
outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class. Except as
may otherwise be provided by law, cause for removal shall be construed to exist
only if the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted of a felony by
a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to
direct appeal or has been adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his or her duty to the
Corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the Corporation, and such
adjudication is no longer subject to direct appeal. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, and except as otherwise provided by law, in the event that
holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock are entitled, voting
separately as a class, to elect one or more directors, the provisions of this
Section 3 shall apply, in respect to the removal of a director so elected,
to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that class or series and
not to the vote of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock voting together as a
single class. 

ARTICLE
V 

Action
by Shareholders 

Any
action required or permitted to be taken by the shareholders of the Corporation
must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders of
the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such
shareholders. Special meetings of shareholders, for any purpose or purposes, may
be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or the
Secretary of the Corporation, and shall be called upon the written request of a
majority of the entire Board of Directors or the holder or holders of not less
than a majority of all the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation
entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be presented at the meeting. Such
request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed
meeting. 

ARTICLE
VI 

Certain
Business Combinations 

Section 1.     Vote Required for Certain
Business Combinations.      

A.     Higher Vote for Certain
Business Combinations.     In addition to any
affirmative vote required by law or these Articles of Incorporation (including
any Preferred Stock Designation), and except as otherwise expressly provided in
Section 2 of this Article VI: 

(i)  any
merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter
defined) with (a) any Interested Shareholder (as hereinafter defined) or
(b) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Shareholder)
which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as
hereinafter defined) of an Interested Shareholder; or 

(ii)  any
sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one
transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Shareholder
or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder of assets of the Corporation or
any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of
$10,000,000 or more; or 

(iii)  the
issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or
a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary
to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder in
exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof)
having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or more; or 

(iv)  the
adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the
Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Shareholder or any
Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder; or 

(v)  any
reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or
recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the
Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries or any other transaction (whether or
not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Shareholder) which has the
effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the
outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the
Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by any
Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested
Shareholder; 

shall
require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power
of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single
class. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no
vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in
any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise. 

B.     Business
Combination.     The term "Business Combination" as
used in this Article VI shall mean any transaction which is referred to in
any one or more of clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph A of this
Section 1. 

Section 2.     When Higher Vote is Not
Required.     The provisions of Section 1 of this
Article VI shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination,
and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is
required by law, any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation
(including any Preferred Stock Designation) or any agreement with any national
securities exchange, if, in the case of a Business Combination that does not
involve any cash or other consideration being received by the shareholders of
the Corporation, solely in their respective capacities as shareholders of the
Corporation, the condition specified in the following paragraph A is met,
or, in the case of any other Business Combination, the conditions specified in
either of the following paragraphs A and B are met: 

A.     Approval by Continuing
Directors.     The Business Combination shall have
been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter
defined). 

B.     Price and Procedure
Requirements.     All of the following conditions
shall have been met: 

(i)   Common
Stock.     The aggregate amount of the cash and the
Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined), as of the date of the consummation
of the Business Combination, of the consideration other than cash to be received
per share by holders of Common Stock in such Business Combination shall be at
least equal to the highest of the following: 

(a)  (if
applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions,
transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Shareholder
for any shares of Common Stock acquired by it (l) within the two-year
period immediately prior to the date of the first public announcement of the
proposal of the Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (2) in
the transaction in which it became an Interested Shareholder, whichever is
higher; or 

(b)  the
Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Announcement Date or on the
date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder (the
"Determination Date"), whichever is higher. 

(ii)   Voting Preferred
Stock.     The aggregate amount of the cash and the
Fair Market Value, as of the date of the consummation of the Business
Combination, of the consideration other than cash to be received per share by
holders of shares of any other outstanding class of Voting Stock or any
outstanding series thereof if shares of such class are issuable in series shall
be at least equal to the highest of the following (it being intended that the
requirements of this paragraph B(ii) shall be required to be met with
respect to every such class or series of outstanding Voting Stock, whether or
not the Interested Shareholder has previously acquired any shares of a
particular class or series of Voting Stock): 

(a)  (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any
brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the
Interested Shareholder for any shares of such class or series of Voting Stock
acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the
Announcement Date or (2) in the transaction in which it became an
Interested Shareholder, whichever is higher; 

(b)  the
Fair Market Value per share of such class or series of Voting Stock on the
Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher;
or 

(c)  the
highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of shares of such
class or series of Voting Stock are entitled in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation. 

(iii)  The
consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding
Voting Stock or the holders of a particular series of a class thereof if shares
of such class are issuable in series shall be in cash or in the same form as the
Interested Shareholder has previously paid for shares of such class or series of
Voting Stock. If the Interested Shareholder has previously paid for shares of
such class or series of Voting Stock with varying forms of consideration, the
form of consideration for such class or series of Voting Stock shall be either
cash or the form used to acquire the largest number of shares of such class or
series of Voting Stock previously acquired by the Interested
Shareholder. 

(iv)  After
such Interested Shareholder has become an Interested Shareholder and prior to
the consummation of such Business Combination, except as approved by a majority
of the Continuing Directors: (a) there shall have been no failure to
declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends
(whether or not cumulative) on any outstanding Preferred Stock; (b) there
shall have been (1) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on
the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common
Stock), and (2) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary
to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split),
recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect
of reducing the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock; and (c) such
Interested Shareholder shall have not become the beneficial owner of any
additional shares of Voting Stock except as part of the transaction which
results in such Interested Shareholder becoming an Interested
Shareholder. 

(v)  After
such Interested Shareholder has become an Interested Shareholder, except as
approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors, such Interested Shareholder
shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except
proportionately as a shareholder), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges
or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages
provided by the Corporation, whether in anticipation of or in connection with
such Business Combination or otherwise. 

(vi)  A
proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and
complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the
rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such
Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to shareholders of the Corporation at
least 30 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination
(whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed
pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions). 

Section 3.     Certain
Definitions.     For the purposes of this
Article VI: 

A.    A
"person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other
entity. 

B.    "Interested
Shareholder" shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or any
Subsidiary) who or which: 

(i)  is
the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 10% of the voting
power of the outstanding Voting Stock; 

(ii)  is
an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period
immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner, directly or
indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting
Stock; or 

(iii)  is
an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which
were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in
question beneficially owned by any Interested Shareholder, if such assignment or
succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of
transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the
Securities Act of 1933. 

C.    A
person shall be a "beneficial owner" of any Voting Stock: 

(i)  which
such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as hereinafter defined)
beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or 

(ii)  which
such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to
acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage
of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the
exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or
otherwise, or (b) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement
or understanding; or 

(iii)  which
are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which
such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement,
arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or
disposing of any shares at Voting Stock. 

D.    For
the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Shareholder
pursuant to paragraph B of this Section 3, the number of shares of
Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through
application of paragraph C of this Section 3 but shall not include any
other shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement,
arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights,
warrants or options, or otherwise. 

E.    "Affiliate"
or "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in
Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on October 1, 1984. 

F.     "Subsidiary"
means any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is
owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation; provided, however, that for
the purposes of the definition of Interested Shareholder set forth in
paragraph B of this Section 3, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a
corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is owned,
directly or indirectly, by the Corporation. 

G.    "Continuing
Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation who is
not an Affiliate or Associate or representative of the Interested Shareholder
and was a member of the Board prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder
became an Interested Shareholder, and any successor of a Continuing Director who
is not an Affiliate or Associate or representative of the Interested Shareholder
and is recommended or elected to succeed a Continuing Director by a majority of
Continuing Directors then on the Board. 

H.    "Fair
Market Value" means: (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price
during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share
of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks,
or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock
Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such exchange, on the principal
United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any
such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such
stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any
system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market
value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the
Board in good faith; and (ii) in the case of property other than cash or
stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as
determined by the Board in good faith. 

I.     In
the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, the
phrase "consideration other than cash to be received" as used in Section 2
of this Article VI shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the
shares of any class or series of outstanding Voting Stock retained by the
holders of such shares. 

Section 4.     Powers of the Board of
Directors.     A majority of the directors the
Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this
Article VI, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable
inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this Article VI,
including, without limitation, (a) whether a person is an Interested
Shareholder, (b) the number of shares of Voting Stock beneficially owned by
any person, (c) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another,
(d) whether the applicable conditions set forth in paragraph B of
Section 2 of this Article VI have been met with respect to any
Business Combination, and (e) whether the assets which are the subject of
any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the
issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any
Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $10,000,000 or
more. 

Section 5.     No Effect on Fiduciary
Obligations of Interested Shareholders.     Nothing
contained in this Article VI shall be construed to relieve any Interested
Shareholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law. 

ARTICLE
VII 

Amendment
of Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws 

Section 1.     Articles of
Incorporation.     The Corporation reserves the right
to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in these Articles of
Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all
rights conferred on shareholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Article VII and the
provisions of the first sentence of Section 3 of Article III, and
Articles IV, V, and VI, may not be altered, amended or repealed in any respect
unless such alteration, amendment or repeal is approved by the affirmative vote
of the holders of at least 75% of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock,
voting together as a single class; provided, however, that such 75% vote shall
not be required for any alteration, amendment or repeal unanimously recommended
by the Board of Directors if all such directors are Continuing Directors as
defined in Paragraph G of Section 3 of Article VI. 

Section 2.     Bylaws.     The
power to adopt, alter, amend or repeal bylaws shall be vested in the Board of
Directors. Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed,
and new bylaws may be adopted by shareholders only if such repeal, change or
adoption is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of
the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single
class. 

*    *    *    * 

These
Restated Articles of Incorporation were duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of FPL Group, Inc. They only restate and integrate and do not further amend
the provisions of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation as heretofore
amended, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions
of these Restated Articles of Amendment. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, FPL Group, Inc. has caused these Restated Articles of
Incorporation to be executed by its President and its Secretary on
December 21, 1984. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By: 

/s/  MARSHALL
      MCDONALD 

Marshall
      McDonald, President 

By: 

/s/  ASTRID
      PFEIFFER 

Astrid
      Pfeiffer, Secretary 

STATE
      OF FLORIDA 

) 

) 

SS. 

COUNTY
      OF DADE 

) 

On
December 21, 1984, Astrid Pfeiffer, Secretary of FPL Group, Inc., a
Florida corporation, personally appeared before me and acknowledged the
foregoing Restated Articles of Incorporation to be the act of said
corporation. 

/s/  MARGIE
      GARREN 

Notary
      Public 

STATEMENT
OF RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE 

SERIES
A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 

of 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

Pursuant
to the provisions of Section 607.047 of the Florida General Corporation
Act, the undersigned corporation submits the following statement for the purpose
of establishing and designating a series within the class of its Serial
Preferred Stock, $.01 par value (the "Serial Preferred Stock"), and fixing and
determining the relative rights and preferences thereof: 

1.     The
name of the corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the
"Corporation"). 

2.     The
following resolutions, establishing and designating a series of Serial Preferred
Stock, and fixing and determining the relative rights and preferences thereof,
were duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on June 16,
1986: 

RESOLVED,
that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors
of this Corporation (hereinafter called the "Board of Directors" or the
"Board")in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Articles of
Incorporation, the Board of Directors hereby establishes a series of Serial
Preferred Stock designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock, consisting of 1,500,000 shares. 

FURTHER
RESOLVED, that the designation, preferences, limitations and relative and other
rights of the Series A Preferred Stock are as follows: 

1.     Designation and
Amount.     The shares of such series shall be
designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the
"Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the
Series A Preferred Stock shall be 1,500,000. Such number of shares may be
increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that
no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of
shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or
warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the
Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock. 

2.     Dividends and
Distributions.  

(A)  Subject
to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of
Preferred Stock or any similar stock ranking prior and superior to the
Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares
of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock,
$.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior
stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of
Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends
payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each
year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment
Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first
issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in
an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a)
$10 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times
the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or
other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or
a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of
Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time
declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common
Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such
event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by
multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event. 

(B)  The
Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A
Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately
after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no
dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the
period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10 per share on the
Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. 

(C)  Dividends
shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date
of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the
record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case
dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such
shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a
date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and
before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such
dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends
paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the
total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares
shall be allocated pro rata on a share by-share basis among all such shares at
the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the
determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to
receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record
date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment
thereof. 

3.     Voting
Rights.     The holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights: 

(A)  Subject
to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of
Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on
all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation. In the
event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or
combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event
shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such
event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that
were outstanding immediately prior to such event. 

(B)  Except
as otherwise provided herein, in any other Statement of Resolution establishing
a series of Serial Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders
of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common
Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting
rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of
shareholders of the Corporation. 

(C)  Except
as set forth, herein, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no
voting rights. 

4.     Certain
Restrictions.  

(A)  Whenever
quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the
Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears,
thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether
or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall
have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not: 

(i)    declare
or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; 

(ii)   declare
or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock
ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid
ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which
dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which
the holders of all such shares are then entitled; 

(iii)  redeem
or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking
junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up)
to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any
time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in
exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to
dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A
Preferred Stock; or 

(iv)  redeem
or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the
Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made
in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all
holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after
consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights
and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good
faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or
classes. 

(B)  The
Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or
otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation
unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such
manner. 

5.     Reacquired
Shares.     Any shares of Series A Preferred
Stock redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner
whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition
thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but
unissued shares of Serial Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new
series of Serial Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on
issuance set forth herein, in the Restated Articles of Incorporation, in any
other Statement of Resolution establishing a series of Serial Preferred Stock or
any similar stock or as otherwise required by law. 

6.     Liquidation, Dissolution or
Winding Up.     Upon any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the
holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock
unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid
dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of
such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the
provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate
amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or
(2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A
Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A
Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to
which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation,
dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time
declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common
Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately
prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding
sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event. 

7.     Consolidation, Merger,
etc.     In case the Corporation shall enter into any
consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of
Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash
and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A
Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an
amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any
other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which
each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation
at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the
preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event. 

8.     Redemption.      

(A)  The
shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemable at the option of the
Corporation, as a whole or in part, at any time or from time to time after
June 30, 1996, at a redemption price per share equal to the greater of
(1) 100 multiplied by the Purchase Price (as such term is defined in the
Rights Agreement, dated as of June 16, 1986, between the Corporation and
The First National Bank of Boston (the "Rights Agreement")) and (2) the
current per share market price (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement)
of the Series A Preferred Stock on the date of notice of redemption, plus,
in either case, all accrued but unpaid dividends. 

(B)  In
the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of the Series A
Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed and the
method for selection of those shares shall be on a pro rata or by lot basis as
determined by the Board of Directors. 

(C)  In
the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of the Series A Preferred
Stock, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the
redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to redeemed, at such
holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation.
Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of
shares of the Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by
such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from
such holder; (3) the redemption price; (4) the place or places where
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption
price; and (5) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to
accrue on such redemption date. 

(D)  Notice
having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless
default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of
the redemption price) dividends on the shares of the Series A Preferred
Stock so called for redemption shall cease, and said shares shall no longer be
deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as shareholders
of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the
redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of
the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for
transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the
notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the
aforesaid redemption price. In case fewer than all the shares represented by any
such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing
the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof. 

(E)  Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, if any dividends on the
Series A Preferred Stock are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be
redeemed unless all outstanding shares of the Series are simultaneously
redeemed, and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares
of the Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the
purchase or acquisition of shares of the Series pursuant to a purchase or
exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of
the Series and which complies with
Section 4(A)(iv) hereof. 

9.     Rank.     The
Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior with respect to the payment of
dividends and the distribution of assets to all series of any class of the
Corporation's Serial Preferred Stock or any similar stock that specifically
provide that they shall rank prior to the Series A Preferred Stock. Nothing
herein shall preclude the Board from creating any series of Serial Preferred
Stock or any similar stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the
Series A Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets. 

10.     Amendment.     The
Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in
any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or
special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them
adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of
the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a
single series. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Statement to be executed in its
name by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, June 27,
1986. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By: 

/s/  J.
      L. HOWARD 

J.
      L. Howard, Vice President   Treasurer 

By: 

/s/  J.
      E. MOORE 

J.
      E. Moore, Assistant Secretary 

STATE OF FLORIDA 

) 

) 

ss. 

COUNTY
      OF DADE 

) 

On
June 27, 1986, J. E. Moore, Assistant Secretary of FPL Group, Inc., a
Florida Corporation, personally appeared before me and acknowledged the
foregoing Statement of Resolution to be the act of said
corporation. 

/s/  JANET
      E. PEREZ 

Notary
      Public 

ARTICLES
OF AMENDMENT 

TO 

ARTICLES
OF INCORPORATION 

OF 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

I. 

The
name of the corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the
"Corporation"). 

II. 

The
Corporation hereby amends, pursuant to Section 607.0602(4) of the Florida
Business Corporation Act, Section 1 of the second resolution of the
Statement of Resolution Establishing the Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock of FPL Group, Inc. ("Statement of Resolution," which
Statement of Resolution constitutes an amendment to the Restated Articles of
Incorporation of the Corporation) to read in its entirety as
follows: 

"1.       Designation and
Amount.     The shares of such series shall be
designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the
"Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the
Series A Preferred Stock shall be 2,500,000. Such number of shares may be
increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, that
no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of
shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or
warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the
Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock." 

III. 

This
Amendment was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of FPL Group prior to
1:00 p.m. on December 17, 1990 without shareholder approval which
shareholder action was not required pursuant to
Section 607.0602(4). 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, FPL Group, Inc. has caused these Articles of Amendment to
be executed on this 17th day of December, 1990. 

FPL
      Group, Inc. 

By: 

/s/  J.
      L. HOWARD 

J.
      L. Howard, Vice President 

                  and
      Treasurer 

ARTICLES
OF AMENDMENT 

TO
THE 

RESTATED
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION, AS AMENDED 

OF 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

AMENDING
AND RESTATING 

THE
STATEMENT OF RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE 

SERIES
A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 

OF 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

Pursuant
to the provisions of Section 607.0602 of the Florida Business Corporation
Act, the undersigned corporation submits the following statement for the purpose
of establishing and designating a series within the class of its Serial
Preferred Stock, $.01 par value (the "Serial Preferred Stock"), and fixing and
determining the relative rights and preferences thereof: 

1.   The name of the
corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the "Corporation"). 

2.   The following resolutions, establishing
and designating a series of Serial Preferred Stock, and fixing and determining
the relative rights and preferences thereof, were duly adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation on June 17, 1996, and amend and restate in its
entirety the Statement of Resolution establishing the Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock filed on July 1, 1986:  

RESOLVED,
that pursuant to the authority expressly granted to and vested in the Board of
Directors of this Corporation (hereinafter called the "Board of Directors" or
the "Board") by the provisions of Article III of the Restated Articles of
Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby
establishes a series of Serial Preferred Stock designated as Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock, consisting of 3,000,000
shares. 

FURTHER
RESOLVED, that the designation, preferences, and relative and other rights of
the Series A Preferred Stock and the qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof are as follows: 

1.   Designation
and Amount.      The shares of
such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares
constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 3,000,000. Such number
may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided,
that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the
number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options,
rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued
by the corporation convertible into Series A Preferred
Stock.  

2.    Dividends and
Distributions.  

(A)  Subject
to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of
Preferred Stock or any similar stock ranking prior and superior to the
Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares
of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock,
$.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior
stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of
Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends
payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each
year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment
Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first
issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in
an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater
of: 

(a) $10, and 

(b) subject to the provision for
adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of
all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in
kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend
payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of
Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock
since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect
to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any
share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the
Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock
payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or
consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or
otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a
greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the
amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled
immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence
shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such
event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that
were outstanding immediately prior to such event. 

(B)  The
Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A
Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately
after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no
dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the
period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10 per share on the
Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. 

(C)  Dividends
shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date
of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the
record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case
dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such
shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a
date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and
before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either or which events such
dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends
paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the
total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares
shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at
the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the
determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to
receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record
date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment
thereof. 

3.   Voting
Rights.      The holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting
rights:  

(A)  Subject
to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, the holder of a whole or
fractional share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on
all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation on the
basis of 100 votes for each whole share. In the event the Corporation shall at
any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share
to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled
immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event. 

(B)  Except
as otherwise provided herein, in the terms of any other series of Serial
Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any
other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote
together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the
Corporation. 

(C)  Except
as otherwise provided herein, or in the Restated Articles of Incorporation, as
amended, of the Corporation, or by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock
shall have no special voting rights. 

4.   Certain
Restrictions.  

(A)  Whenever
quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the
Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears,
thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether
or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall
have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not: 

(i)  declare
or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock
ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; 

(ii)  declare
or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock
ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid
ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which
dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which
the holders of all such shares are then entitled; 

(iii)  redeem
or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking
junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up)
to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any
time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in
exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to
dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A
Preferred Stock; or 

(iv)  redeem
or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A
Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or
by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such
shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the
respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of
the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in
fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or
classes. 

(B)  The
Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or
otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation
unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such
manner. 

5.   Reacquired
Shares.      Any shares of
Series A Preferred Stock redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the
Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly
after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation
become authorized but unissued shares of Serial Preferred Stock and may be
reissued as part of a new series of Serial Preferred Stock subject to the
conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Restated
Articles of Incorporation, in any amendment to the Restated Articles of
Incorporation establishing a series of Serial Preferred Stock or any similar
stock or as otherwise required by law.  

6.   Liquidation,
Dissolution or Winding Up.      Upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall
be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A
Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall have received the greater of (i) $100 per share, plus
an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon,
whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, and (ii) an aggregate
amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders
of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking
on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on
the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the
total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such
liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at
any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case, the aggregate amount to which
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately
prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding
sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event.  

7.   Consolidation,
Merger, etc.      In case the
Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other
transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed
into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such
case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be
similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the
provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate
amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind),
as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is
changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation at any time declares or pays
any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a
subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common
Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares
of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then
in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to
the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and
the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding prior to such event.  

8.   Redemption.  

(A)  The
shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemable at the option of the
Corporation, as a whole or in part, at any time or from time to time after
June 30, 2006, at a redemption price per share equal to the greater of
(1) 100 multiplied by the Purchase Price (as such term is defined in the
Rights Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1996, between the Corporation and The
First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement")) and
(2) the current per share market price (as such term is defined in the
Rights Agreement) of the Series A Preferred Stock on the date of notice of
redemption, plus, in either case, all accrued but unpaid dividends. 

(B)  In
the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of the Series A
Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed and the
method for selection of those shares shall be on a pro rata or by lot basis as
determined by the Board of Directors. 

(C)  In
the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of the Series A Preferred
Stock, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the
redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such
holder's address as the name appears on the stock register of the Corporation.
Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number
of shares of the Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by
such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from
such holder; (3) the redemption price; (4) the place or places where
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption
price; and (5) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to
accrue on such redemption date. 

(D)  Notice
having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless
default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of
the redemption price) dividends on the shares of the Series A Preferred
Stock so called for redemption shall cease, and said shares shall no longer be
deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as shareholders
of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the
redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of
the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for
transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the
notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the
aforesaid redemption price. In case fewer than all the shares represented by any
such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing
the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof. 

(E)  Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, if any dividends on the
Series A Preferred Stock are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be
redeemed unless all outstanding shares of the Series are simultaneously
redeemed, and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares
of the Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the
purchase or acquisition of shares of the Series pursuant to a purchase or
exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of
the Series and which complies with
Section 4(A)(iv) hereof. 

9.   Rank.      The
Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior with respect to the payment of
dividends and the distribution of assets to all series of any class of the
Corporation's Serial Preferred Stock or any similar stock that specifically
provide that they shall rank prior to the Series A Preferred Stock. Nothing
herein shall preclude the Board from creating any series of Serial Preferred
Stock or any similar stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the
Series A Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets.  

10.   Amendment.      The Restated
Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner
which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights
of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the
affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares
of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single
class.  

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Statement to be executed in its
name by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on June 27,
1996. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By: 

/s/  DENNIS
      P. COYLE 

Dennis
      P. Coyle 

                  General
      Counsel and Secretary 

ARTICLES
OF AMENDMENT 

TO
THE 

RESTATED
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION 

OF 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

1.     The
name of the corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the
"Corporation"). 

2.     The
text of Section 1 of Article III of the Restated Articles of
Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
follows: 

Section 1.       Authorized Capital
Stock.     The aggregate number of shares which the
Corporation is authorized to issue is 500,000,000 shares, consisting of
100,000,000 shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, and 400,000,000
shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value. 

3.     Pursuant
to the provisions of Section 607.1003 of the Florida Business Corporation
Act, these Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation were
approved at a meeting of the board of directors of the Corporation duly held on
February 13, 2004, and were approved at a meeting of the shareholders of
the Corporation duly held on May 21, 2004. The number of votes cast in
favor of these Articles of Amendment by the shareholders was sufficient for
approval. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly-authorized officer of the Corporation has
executed these Articles of Amendment as of this 26th day of May,
2004. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By: 

/s/  DENNIS
      P. COYLE 

Dennis
      P. Coyle 

                  General
      Counsel and Secretary 

ARTICLES
OF AMENDMENT 

TO
THE 

ARTICLES
OF INCORPORATION 

OF 

FPL
GROUP, INC. 

1.     The
name of the corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the
"Corporation"). 

2.     In
accordance with the provisions of Section 607.10025 of the Florida Business
Corporation Act, on February 18, 2005, the board of directors of the
Corporation approved a division of the Common Stock, $.01 par value, of the
Corporation and, in connection therewith, an amendment to the Restated Articles
of Incorporation of the Corporation, and no shareholder action was required in
accordance with Section 607.10025(2) of the Florida Business Corporation
Act. 

3.     The
amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation being
effected hereby does not adversely affect the rights or preferences of the
holders of outstanding shares of any class or series and does not result in the
percentage of authorized shares that remain unissued after the division
exceeding the percentage of authorized shares that were unissued before the
division. 

4.     The
Common Stock, $.01 par value, is the class of shares subject to the division.
Upon the effective date of the division, the 400,000,000 shares of Common Stock,
$.01 par value, which the Corporation is authorized to issue prior to the
division are to be divided into 800,000,000 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par
value, and each share of Common Stock, $.01 par value, issued and outstanding
immediately prior to the division shall be divided into two shares of Common
Stock, $.01 par value. 

5.     The
amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation as
approved by the board of directors of the Corporation and as effected hereby, is
that the text of Section 1 of Article III of the Restated Articles of
Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended, effective on March 15,
2005, in its entirety to read as follows: 

Section 1.      Authorized Capital
Stock.     The aggregate number of shares which the
Corporation is authorized to issue is 900,000,000 shares, consisting of
100,000,000 shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, and 800,000,000
shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value. 

6.     The
division of the Common Stock, $.01 par value, shall become effective at
5:00 P.M., Eastern Time, on March 15, 2005. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly-authorized officer of the Corporation has
executed these Articles of Amendment as of this 10 th  day of
March, 2005. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By:
      /s/ EDWARD F. TANCER 

Edward
      F. Tancer 

                  Vice
      President and General Counsel 

ARTICLES
OF AMENDMENT 

      TO
THE 

      RESTATED
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION, 

      AS
AMENDED, OF FPL GROUP, INC. 

      DELETING
THE AUTHORIZATION FOR THE 

      SERIES
A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK 

      OF 

      FPL
GROUP, INC. 

Pursuant
to the provisions of Section 607.1002 of the Florida Business Corporation Act,
the undersigned corporation hereby submits the following amendment for the
purpose of deleting the authorization for its Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock: 

1.      The
name of the corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the "Corporation"). 

2.      The
amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, of the
Corporation adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation is as
follows: 

The
Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, are amended
to delete authorization for the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of
the Corporation previously established as a series of its Serial Preferred
Stock, $.01 par value. 

3.      No
shares of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation
have been issued. 

4.      This
amendment was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on May
26, 2006 without shareholder action, which action was not required pursuant to
Section 607.1002(5) of the Florida Business Corporation Act. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused these Articles of Amendment to be
executed in its name by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on July 3,
2006. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By:  

EDWARD
      F. TANCER 

Edward
      F. Tancer 

                  Vice
      President   General
Counsel 

</EX-3.(I)A>

<EX-10.(F)>
 3
 exhibit10f.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(F)

exhibit10f.htm 

Exhibit
10(f) 

Appendix
      A1 

                Last
      Revised On: December 12, 2008 

Name 

Company 

Pre-4/1/1997
      Participant 

Class
      A  Bonus SERP  Status 

Double
      Basic Credits 

Double
      Transition Credits 

HAY,
      LEWIS, III * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 

PIMENTEL,
      ARMANDO * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 

X 1  

ROBO,
      JAMES L. * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 

X 1  

OLIVERA,
      ARMANDO J. * 

Florida
      Power   Light Company 

X 

X 

DAVIDSON,  F.
      MITCHELL * 

FPL
      Energy, LLC 

X 1  

X 1  

STALL,
      J. ARTHUR * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 

X 1  

1  

The
      Compensation Committee has expressly identified these items and
      acknowledged that they are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section
      409A.  In particular, these items include: (i) the additional
      deferred compensation provided by the designation of certain officers as
      Class A Executives, effective on or after January 1, 2006; and (ii) the
      additional deferred compensation set forth in SERP Amendment #4 to the
      Prior Plan (meaning amounts deferred by certain senior officers specified
      by the Compensation Committee who became participants in the SERP on or
      after April 1, 1997 at the rate of two times the basic credit and, to the
      extent applicable, the transition credit under the cash balance formula in
      the SERP for their pensionable earnings on or after January 1,
      2006).  Importantly, nothing in Amendment #4 to the Prior Plan,
      the SERP, Compensation Committee resolutions, or any other document shall
      be construed as subjecting to Code Section 409A any deferrals made under
      the SERP prior to January 1, 2005, except as expressly noted
      herein. 

* 

Executive
      Officer of FPL Group, Inc. 

Appendix
      A2 

                Last
      Revised On: December 12, 2008 

Name 

Company 

Pre-4/1/1997
      Participant 

Class
      A  Bonus SERP  Status 

Double
      Basic Credits 

Double
      Transition Credits 

BENNETT,
      CHRISTOPHER A. * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 1  

X 1  

MCGRATH,
      ROBERT L.  3 * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 1  

X 1  

X 1  

POPPELL,
      JAMES W. * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 1  

X 1  

RODRIGUEZ,
      ANTONIO * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 

SIEVING,
      CHARLES E. * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 1  

X 1  

CUTLER,
      PAUL I. * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 1  

DAVIS,
      K. MICHAEL * 

FPL
      Group, Inc 

X 

1  

The
      Compensation Committee has expressly identified these items and
      acknowledged that they are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section
      409A.  In particular, these items include: (i) the additional
      deferred compensation provided by the designation of certain officers as
      Class A Executives, effective on or after January 1, 2006; and (ii) the
      additional deferred compensation set forth in SERP Amendment #4 to the
      Prior Plan (meaning amounts deferred by certain senior officers specified
      by the Compensation Committee who became participants in the SERP on or
      after April 1, 1997 at the rate of two times the basic credit and, to the
      extent applicable, the transition credit under the cash balance formula in
      the SERP for their pensionable earnings on or after January 1,
      2006).  Importantly, nothing in Amendment #4 to the Prior Plan,
      the SERP, Compensation Committee resolutions, or any other document shall
      be construed as subjecting to Code Section 409A any deferrals made under
      the SERP  prior  to
      January 1, 2005, except as expressly noted herein. 

2  

[intentionally
      omitted] 

3  

Due
      to material modification of the SERP benefit pursuant to Executive
      Retention Employment Agreements entered into after December 31, 2004, no
      amount of the SERP benefit for Messrs. Escoto, McGrath or Tancer are
      eligible for grandfathered treatment under Code Section 409A. 

* 

Executive
      Officer of FPL Group, Inc. 

</EX-10.(F)>

<EX-10.(L)>
 4
 exhibit10l.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(L)

exhibit10l.htm 

Exhibit
10(l) 

      Form
of 

PERFORMANCE
SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 

under
the 

FPL
GROUP, INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

This Performance Share Award Agreement
("Agreement") between FPL Group, Inc. (hereinafter called the "Company") and
 ___________________
 (hereinafter called the "Participant") is dated ______ ___,
20___. 

1.            Grant of Performance Share Award
 - The Company hereby grants to the Participant a Performance Share Award
("Award") which confers upon the Participant the right to receive a number of
shares ("Performance Shares") of the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per
share ("Common Stock"), determined as set forth in section 2, below. The
Participant's right to receive the Performance Shares shall be subject to the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Company's Amended
and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the
"Plan").  The performance period for which this Award is granted is
the period beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on December 31,
2011 (such period hereinafter referred to as the "Performance
Period"). 

The
"Target" number of Performance Shares granted to the Participant for the
Performance Period is __________. 

2.            Payment of Performance Share
Award    (a) Payment of the Award shall be conditioned upon (i) the
achievement of annual performance targets established by the Compensation
Committee of the Board (or such other committee designated to administer the
Plan, including, for participants who are not executive officers, a committee to
whom administration has been delegated under the Plan (the "Committee")) for the
Participant under the FPL Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Annual
Incentive Plan (or any successor annual incentive plan, hereinafter the "Annual
Incentive Plan") for each of the three calendar years of the Performance Period,
(ii) certification of such achievement for each year in the Performance Period
by the Committee and (iii) Committee approval of the number of shares to be paid
to the Participant.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
Participant shall have the right to payment of that percentage of the
Participant's Target number of Performance Shares set forth in section 1 hereof
which is equal to the average of the Participant's percentage achievement under
the Annual Incentive Plan for each year in the Performance Period, but in no
event more than 160% of such Target number of Performance Shares. In addition,
the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which a Participant may receive in
any year under this Agreement and pursuant to all other stock-based Awards which
are also subject to performance criteria is 250,000 shares of Common
Stock.  The Committee has the discretion to reduce the payout, but not
to increase it. 

(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing or
the provisions of section 4 hereof, if (i) the Participant is a party to an
Executive Retention Employment Agreement with the Company ("Retention
Agreement") and has not waived his or her rights, either entirely or in
pertinent part, under such Retention Agreement, and (ii) the Effective Date (as
defined in the Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) has occurred
and the Employment Period (as defined in the Retention Agreement as in effect on
the date hereof) has commenced and has not terminated pursuant to section 3(b)
of the Retention Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof) then, so long as
the Participant is then employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries or
affiliates: 

(1)           one-half
(1/2) of the Performance Shares shall vest upon a Change of Control (as defined
in the Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) and shall be payable
as soon as practicable thereafter (but in all cases within thirty days of the
Change of Control) earned at a deemed achievement level equal to the higher of
(x) the Target number of shares of Common Stock set forth in this Agreement or
(y) the average level (expressed as a percentage of the Target number of shares
of Common Stock set forth in this Agreement) of achievement in respect of
similar performance stock-based awards which matured over the three fiscal years
immediately preceding the year in which the Change of Control occurred;
and 

(2)           the
other one-half (1/2) of the Performance Shares (earned at a deemed achievement
level calculated as set forth in subsection (1), above) shall vest on the
earlier of (i) the date which is one year after the date on which the Change of
Control occurs, if the Participant is then employed by the Company or its
successor, payable as soon as practicable thereafter, or (ii) the date on which
the Participant's employment with the Company or its successor terminates,
payable as soon as practicable thereafter (but in all cases no later than the
15 th 
day of the third month following the end of the first taxable year in which the
right to such payment arises). 

(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 2(a) and 4 hereof, if the Participant
is not a party to a Retention Agreement, the rights of the Participant upon a
Change of Control (as defined in the Plan) shall be as set forth in section 9 of
the Plan on the date hereof. 

(d)
If, as a result of a Change of Control, the Common Stock is exchanged for or
converted into a different form of equity security and/or the right to receive
other property (including cash), payment in respect of the Performance Shares
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be made in the same form. 

3.            Payment of Award  - Awards
shall be payable in shares of Common Stock.  Upon delivery of
Performance Shares to the Participant, the Company shall have the right to
withhold from any such distribution, in order to meet the Company's obligations
for the payment of withholding taxes, shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market
Value (as defined in the Plan) equal to the minimum statutory withholding for
taxes (including federal and state income taxes and payroll taxes applicable to
the supplemental taxable income relating to such distribution) and any other tax
liabilities for which the Company has an obligation relating to such
distribution.  For the purpose of this Agreement, the date of
determination of Fair Market Value shall be the date as of which the
Participant's rights to payments under this Award are determined by the
Committee in accordance with section 2 hereof. 

Delivery of Performance Shares shall
occur as soon as administratively practicable following the Committee's
determination of the Participant's right to such delivery. 

4.            Termination of Employment   
Except as otherwise set forth herein, in the event the Participant terminates
employment with the Company during the Performance Period, the Participant's
right to payment of the Award shall be determined as follows: 

(a)   

If
      the Participant's termination of employment is due to resignation,
      discharge, or retirement prior to age 65 which does not meet the condition
      set forth in section 4(c), below, all rights to the Award shall be
      immediately forfeited. 

(b)   

If
      the Participant's termination of employment is due to (1) total and
      permanent disability (as defined under the Company's executive long-term
      disability plan), (2) death, or (3) retirement on or after age 65 not
      meeting the condition set forth in section 4(c),
  below: 

(i)   

Participant's
      Target number of Performance Shares for the Performance Period shall be
      reduced to a prorated number of Performance Shares based on the number of
      full days of Participant's service during the Performance Period;
      and 

(ii) 

Participant's
      right to Performance Shares under Section 2 hereof shall be determined as
      the Participant's Target number of Performance Shares, reduced as set
      forth in section 4(b)(i), times the average of the Participant's
      percentage achievement under the Annual Incentive Plan for each year in
      the Performance Period (subject to a maximum of 160%); provided that the
      Participant's percentage achievement for the year in which the
      Participant's employment terminates, and any subsequent years in the
      Performance Period, shall be deemed to be 100%;
  and 

(iii) 

Payment
      of Awards under this section 4(b) shall be made after the end of the
      Performance Period at the time and in the manner specified in section 3
      hereof. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if, after termination of employment but prior to payment of any
Award, the Participant breaches any provision hereof, including without
limitation the provisions of section 9 hereof, the Participant shall immediately
forfeit all rights to the Award. 

(c)           If
the Participant's termination of employment is due to retirement on or after age
50, and if, but only if, such retirement is evidenced by a writing which
specifically acknowledges that this provision shall apply to such retirement and
is executed by the Company's chief executive officer (or, if the Participant is
an executive officer, by a member of the Committee or the chief executive
officer at the direction of the Committee, other than with respect to himself),
Participant's Target number of Performance Shares for the Performance Period
shall be as set forth in section 1 hereof and Participant's right to Performance
Shares under Section 2 hereof shall be determined as the Participant's Target
number of Performance Shares times the average of the Participant's percentage
achievement under the Annual Incentive Plan for each year in the Performance
Period (subject to a maximum of 160%); provided that the Participant's
percentage achievement for the year in which the Participant's employment
terminates, and any subsequent years in the Performance Period, shall be deemed
to be 100%.  Payment of Awards under this section 4(c) shall be made
after the end of the Performance Period at the time and in the manner specified
in section 3 hereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, after
termination of employment but prior to payment of any Award, the Participant
breaches any provision hereof, including without limitation the provisions of
section 9 hereof, the Participant shall immediately forfeit all rights to the
Award. 

(d)           If
a Participant's employment is terminated during the Performance Period for any
reason other than as set forth in sections 4(a), (b) and (c) above, or if an
ambiguity exists as to the interpretation of those sections, the Committee shall
determine whether the Participant's Award shall be forfeited or whether the
Participant shall be entitled to full vesting or pro rata vesting based upon
full days of service completed during the Performance Period.  Payment
of Awards under this section 4(d) shall be made after the end of the Performance
Period at the time and in the manner specified in section 3 hereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, after termination of employment but prior to
payment of any Award, the Participant breaches any provision hereof, including
without limitation the provisions of section 9 hereof, the Participant shall
immediately forfeit all rights to the Award. 

[the following applies only to Mr. Hay]
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employment Period (as defined in the
Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) is not then in effect, and
the Participant terminates employment for Good Reason (as defined in the
Participant's Employment Letter with the Company (as in effect on the date
hereof, the "Employment Letter") or the Company terminates the Participant's
employment without Cause (as defined in the Employment Letter), prior to the end
of the Performance Period, then the Participant shall be entitled to a pro rata
portion of this Performance Share Award, calculated assuming that the
Participant's percentage achievement for the year in which the Participant's
employment terminates, and any subsequent years in the Performance Period, shall
be deemed to be 100%. 

5.            Adjustments  - In the event of
any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock
dividend or split, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation,
combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change, then the Target
number of Performance Shares granted hereunder shall be adjusted
proportionately.  No adjustment will be made in connection with the
payment by the Company of any cash dividend on its Common Stock or in connection
with the issuance by the Company of any warrants, rights, or options to acquire
additional shares of Common Stock or of securities convertible into Common
Stock. 

6.            No Rights of Stock Ownership 
- - This grant of Performance Shares does not entitle the Participant to any
interest in or to any dividend, voting, or other rights normally attributable to
Common Stock ownership. 

7.            Nonassignability  - The
Participant's rights and interest in the Performance Shares may not be sold,
transferred, assigned, pledged, exchanged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of
except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution. 

8.            Effect Upon Employment  - This
Agreement is not to be construed as giving any right to the Participant for
continuous employment by the Company or a subsidiary or
affiliate.  The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates retain the
right to terminate the Participant at will and with or without cause at any time
(subject to any rights the Participant may have under the Participant's
Retention Agreement [and Employment Letter, in the case of Mr.
Hay]) 

9.               Protective Covenants  -   In consideration of the
Award granted under this Agreement, the Participant covenants and agrees as
follows (the "Protective Covenants"): 

(a)   

During
      the Participant's employment with the Company, and for a two-year period
      following the termination of the Participant's employment with the
      Company, Participant agrees (i) not to compete or attempt to compete for,
      or act as a broker or otherwise participate in, any projects in which the
      Company has at any time done any work or undertaken any development
      efforts, or (ii) directly or indirectly solicit any of the Company's
      customers, vendors, contractors, agents, or any other parties with which
      the Company has an existing or prospective business relationship, for the
      benefit of the Participant or for the benefit of any third party, nor
      shall the Participant accept consideration or negotiate or enter into
      agreements with such parties for the benefit of the Participant or any
      third party. 

(b)   

During
      the Participant's employment with the Company and for a two-year period
      following the termination of the Participant's employment with the
      Company, the Participant shall not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of
      the Participant or for any other business, person or entity, entice,
      induce or solicit or attempt to entice, induce or solicit any employee of
      the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates to leave the Company's
      employ (or the employ of such subsidiary or affiliate) or to hire or to
      cause any employee of the Company to become employed for any reason
      whatsoever. 

(c)   

The
      Participant shall not, at any time or in any way, disparage the Company or
      its current or former officers, directors, and employees, orally or in
      writing, or make any statements that may be derogatory or detrimental to
      the Company's good name or business
reputation. 

(d)   

The
      Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have an adequate
      remedy at law for monetary damages if the Participant breaches these
      Protective Covenants.  Therefore, in addition to all remedies to
      which the Company may be entitled for a breach or threatened breach of
      these Protective Covenants, including but not limited to monetary damages,
      the Company will be entitled to specific enforcement of these Protective
      Covenants and to injunctive or other equitable relief as a remedy for a
      breach or threatened breach.  In addition, upon any breach of
      these Protective Covenants or any separate confidentiality agreement or
      confidentiality provision between the Company and the Participant, all
      Participant's rights to receive Performance Shares not theretofor
      delivered under this Agreement shall be
  forfeited. 

(e)   

For
      purposes of this section 9, the term "Company" shall include all
      subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company, including, without limitation,
      Florida Power   Light Company and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, and
      their respective subsidiaries and affiliates (such subsidiaries and
      affiliates being hereinafter referred to as the "FPL Entities"). The
      Company and the Participant agree that each of the FPL Entities is an
      intended third-party beneficiary of this section 9, and further agree that
      each of the FPL Entities is entitled to enforce the provisions of this
      section 9 in accordance with its
terms. 

(f)   

Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the terms of these
      Protective Covenants shall survive the termination of this Agreement and
      shall remain in effect. 

10.            Successors   and Assigns - This Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the Company and the
Participant and their respective heirs, successors and assigns. 

11.            Incorporation of Plan's Terms 
- - This Agreement is made under and subject to the provisions of the Plan, and
all the provisions of the Plan are also provisions of this Agreement (including,
but not limited to, the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan pertaining to a
Change of Control; provided that if the Participant is a party to a Retention
Agreement, the provisions of section 2(b) hereof shall supercede the provisions
of the Plan with respect to a Change of Control).  If there is a
difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the
mandatory provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will
govern.  If there is a difference or conflict between the provisions
of this Agreement and a provision of the Plan as to which the Committee is
authorized to make a contrary determination, the provisions of this Agreement
will govern.  Except as otherwise expressly defined in this Agreement,
all terms used herein are used as defined in the Plan as it may be amended from
time to time.  The Company and Committee retain all authority and
powers granted by the Plan as it may be amended from time to time not expressly
limited by this Agreement.  The Participant acknowledges that he or
she may not and will not rely on any statement of account or other communication
or document issued in connection with the Plan other than the Plan, this
Agreement, and any document signed by an authorized representative of the
Company that is designated as an amendment of the Plan or this
Agreement. 

12.            Interpretation  - The
Committee has the sole and absolute right to interpret the provisions of this
Agreement. 

13 .             Governing Law/Jurisdiction  -
This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of
the State of Florida, without regard to its conflict of laws
principles.  All suits, actions, and proceedings relating to this
Agreement may be brought only in the courts of the State of Florida located in
Palm Beach County or in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida in West Palm Beach, Florida.  The Company and the
Participant shall consent to the nonexclusive personal jurisdiction of the
courts described in this section for the purpose of all suits, actions, and
proceedings relating to the Agreement or the Plan.  The Company and
Participant each waive all objections to venue and to all claims that a court
chosen in accordance with this section is improper based on a venue or a forum
non conveniens claim. 

14.          Amendment  .  This
Agreement may be amended, in whole or in part and in any manner not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Plan, at any time and from time to time, by written
agreement between the Company and the Participant. 

15.          Data Privacy .  By
entering into this Agreement, the Participant:  (i) authorizes the
Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and any agent of the Company
or a subsidiary or affiliate administering the Plan or providing Plan
recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates such information and data as the Company or any such subsidiary or
affiliate shall reasonably request in order to facilitate the administration of
this Agreement; and (ii) authorizes the Company or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates to store and transmit such information in electronic form, provided
such information is appropriately safeguarded in accordance with Company
policy. 

By signing this Agreement, the
Participant accepts and agrees to all of the foregoing terms and provisions and
to all the terms and provisions of the Plan incorporated herein by reference and
confirms that he has received a copy of the Plan. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have
signed this Agreement as of the date and year first above written. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

BY: 

ACCEPTED: 

Participant 

</EX-10.(L)>

<EX-10.(Q)>
 5
 exhibit10q.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(Q)

exhibit10q.htm 

Exhibit
10(q) 

Form
of 

RESTRICTED
STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT 

under
the 

FPL
GROUP, INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

This Restricted Stock Award Agreement
("Agreement"), between FPL Group, Inc. (hereinafter called the "Company") and
 ___________________
 (hereinafter called the "Participant") is dated ______ ___,
20___. 

1.            Grant of Restricted Stock
Award  - The Company hereby grants to the Participant  _________  shares of the
Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), which shares
(the "Awarded Shares") shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in
sections 2, 3 and 4, below, as well as all other terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement and in the Company's Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive
Plan, as amended from time to time (the "Plan").  Subject to the terms
of section 3(d) hereof, the Participant shall have the right to receive
dividends on the Awarded Shares as and when paid. 

2.            Vesting - Restrictions and
Limitations    (a) Subject to the limitations and other terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Plan, the Awarded Shares shall
vest, the Company shall remove all restrictions from such Awarded Shares and the
Participant shall obtain unrestricted ownership of the Awarded Shares in
accordance with the schedule set forth below: 

-   

___ shares  on the later
      to occur of (i) [ 1 year
      following grant ], or, (ii) the date on which the Compensation
      Committee of the Board (or such other committee designated to administer
      the Plan (the "Committee")) makes the certification described in Section
      2(b) hereof (the "First Vest") 

-   

___ shares  on the later
      to occur of (i) [ 2 years
      following grant ], or (ii) the date on which the Committee makes the
      certification described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "Second
      Vest") 

-   

___ shares  on the later
      to occur of (i) [ 3 years
      following grant ], or (ii) the date on which the Committee makes the
      certification described in Section 2(b) hereof (the "Final
      Vest") 

The period from the date of grant of
the Awarded Shares through the date immediately preceding the date on which such
Awarded Shares vest shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Restriction
Period." 

(b)         Notwithstanding
the provisions of section 2(a) hereof: 

(i)         The
First Vest shall be conditioned on, subject to and shall not occur until
certification by the Committee (by resolution or in such other manner as the
Committee deems appropriate) that the Corporate Performance Objective (as such
term is defined in the Company's Amended and Restated Executive Annual Incentive
Plan) or similar objective under the Company's then-existing annual incentive
plan, or, if there is no such Corporate Performance Objective or similar
objective so established, such other appropriate performance target as the
Committee may establish (such Corporate Performance Objective, similar objective
or other performance target being hereinafter referred to as the "Performance
Target"), for [ year of
grant ] has been achieved.  If the Committee does not or cannot
certify that the Performance Target has been achieved by December 31, [ following year ], then the
Participant shall forfeit the right to the shares subject to the First Vest, and
such shares shall be cancelled. 

(ii)         The
Second Vest shall be conditioned on, subject to and shall not occur until
certification by the Committee (by resolution or in such other manner as the
Committee deems appropriate) that the Performance Target for [ year following year of grant ]
has been achieved.  If the Compensation Committee does not or cannot
certify that the Performance Target has been achieved by December 31, [ following year ], then the
Participant shall forfeit the right to the shares subject to the Second Vest,
and such shares shall be cancelled. 

(iii)          The
Final Vest shall be conditioned on, subject to and shall not occur until
certification by the Committee (by resolution or in such other manner as the
Committee deems appropriate) that the Performance Target for [ two years following year of
grant ] has been achieved.  If the Committee does not or cannot
certify that the Performance Target has been achieved by December 31, [ following year ], then the
Participant shall forfeit the right to the shares subject to the Final Vest, and
such shares shall be cancelled. 

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of
sections 2(a) and 2(b), if (i) the Participant is a party to an Executive
Retention Employment Agreement with the Company ("Retention Agreement") and has
not waived his or her rights, either entirely or in pertinent part, under such
Retention Agreement, and (ii) the Effective Date (as defined in the Retention
Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) has occurred and the Employment
Period (as defined in the Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof)
has commenced and has not terminated pursuant to section 3(b) of the Retention
Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof) then, so long as the Participant is
then employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates, the
Awarded Shares shall vest upon a Change of Control (as defined in the Retention
Agreement as in effect on the date hereof), in lieu of the vesting schedule set
forth in this section 2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of sections
2(a) and 2(b), if the Participant is not a party to a Retention Agreement, the
rights of the Participant upon a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan)
shall be as set forth in section 9 of the Plan as in effect on the date
hereof. 

(d) If as a result of a Change of
Control (as defined in the Plan), the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for
or converted into a different form of equity security and/or the right to
receive other property (including cash), payment in respect of the Restricted
Stock shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be made in the same
form. 

3.            Terms and Conditions 
- -  The Awarded Shares shall be registered in the name of the
Participant effective on the date of grant.  The Company will issue
the Awarded Shares either (i) in certificated form, subject to a restrictive
legend substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and stop
transfer instructions to its transfer agent, and will provide for retention of
custody of the Awarded Shares prior to vesting and/or (ii) in non-certificated
form, subject to restrictions and instructions of like effect.  Prior
to vesting (and if the Awarded Shares have not theretofore been forfeited in
accordance herewith), the Participant shall have the right to enjoy all
shareholder rights (including without limitation the right to receive dividends
(subject to forfeiture as more fully set forth below) and to vote the Awarded
Shares at all meetings of the shareholders of the Company at which holders of
Common Stock have the right to vote), with the exception that: 

(a) 

The
      Participant shall not be entitled to delivery of unrestricted shares until
      vesting. 

(b) 

The
      Participant may not sell, transfer, pledge, exchange, hypothecate, or
      otherwise dispose of the Awarded Shares prior to
  vesting. 

(c) 

In
      addition to the provisions set forth in section 4 hereof, a breach by the
      Participant of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement shall
      result in the immediate forfeiture of all then unvested Awarded
      Shares. 

(d) 

Notwithstanding
      anything herein to the contrary, if all or a portion of the Awarded Shares
      do not vest, whether upon the termination of the Participant's employment
      with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company (including
      any successors to the Company), or otherwise (including without limitation
      if the Company fails to meet one or more Performance Targets established
      as described in section 2(b) hereof), all dividends paid to the
      Participant on Awarded Shares which have not vested (and which shall not
      thereafter vest in accordance with Section 4 hereof) shall be forfeited,
      and shall be repaid to the Company within thirty (30) days after the date
      on which Participant's obligation to repay such dividends
      accrues.  For purposes hereof, such obligation to repay such
      dividends shall accrue (1) on such date as the Committee establishes that
      a Performance Target has not been met, as to all dividends paid on Awarded
      Shares which are forfeited due to failure to meet such Performance Target;
      (2) on the date of termination of employment, as to all dividends paid on
      Awarded Shares which are forfeited upon such termination of employment;
      and (3) after termination of employment if, prior to vesting of all or any
      portion of the Awarded Shares, the Participant breaches any provision
      hereof, including without limitation the provisions of section 9 hereof,
      in which event the Participant shall immediately forfeit all rights to the
      then-unvested Awarded Shares and any dividends theretofore paid on such
      then-unvested Awarded Shares. 

4.          Vesting Conditions    Except
as otherwise set forth herein, the Participant must remain in the continuous
employment of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company (including
any successors to the Company) from the effective date of this Agreement through
the relevant vesting date (or dates) set forth in (or determined in accordance
with) section 2, above, in order for the Awarded Shares to vest and in order to
retain the dividends paid prior to vesting with respect to such Awarded
Shares.  Except as otherwise set forth herein or in the Plan in
connection with a Change of Control (as defined in a Retention Agreement, if
applicable, or in the Plan as in effect on the date hereof), in the event that
the Participant's employment with the Company (or a subsidiary, affiliate or
successor of the Company) terminates for any reason prior to vesting, his or her
rights hereunder will be determined as follows: 

(a) 

If
      the Participant's termination of employment is due to resignation,
      discharge, or retirement prior to age 65 which does not meet the condition
      set forth in section 4(c), below, all rights to Awarded Shares not
      theretofore vested (including without limitation rights to dividends not
      theretofore paid and rights to retain dividends on Awarded Shares which
      have not theretofore vested, as more fully set forth in section 3(d)
      hereof) under this Agreement shall be immediately
      forfeited.  Forfeited dividends shall be repaid to the Company
      within thirty (30) days after the Participant's termination of
      employment. 

(b) 

If
      the Participant's termination of employment is due to (1) total and
      permanent disability (as defined under the Company's executive long-term
      disability plan), (2) death or (3) retirement on or after age 65 not
      meeting the condition set forth in section 4(c), below, a pro rata share
      (calculated based upon the number of completed years of service during the
      Restriction Period) of the then unvested portion of the Awarded Shares
      shall vest (a) in the event of disability or death, on the date of
      termination of employment or (b) in the event of retirement on or after
      age 65 which does not meet the condition set forth in section 4(c), below,
      on the vesting schedule and otherwise in accordance with the terms and
      conditions (including without limitation satisfaction of the applicable
      performance conditions) set forth in section 2 hereof, notwithstanding
      that the Participant's employment will have previously
      terminated.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, after
      termination of employment but prior to vesting of all or any portion of
      the Awarded Shares, the Participant breaches any provision hereof,
      including without limitation the provisions of section 9 hereof, the
      Participant shall immediately forfeit all rights to the then-unvested
      Awarded Shares and any dividends theretofore paid on such then-unvested
      Awarded Shares. Forfeited dividends shall be repaid to the Company within
      thirty (30) days after the date on which Participant's obligation to repay
      such dividends accrues. 

(c) 

If
      the Participant's termination of employment is due to retirement on or
      after age 50, and if, but only if, such retirement is evidenced by a
      writing which specifically acknowledges that this provision shall apply to
      such retirement and is executed by the Company's chief executive officer
      (or, if the Participant is an executive officer, by a member of the
      Committee or the chief executive officer at the direction of the
      Committee, other than with respect to himself), the then-unvested portion
      of the Awarded Shares shall vest on the vesting schedule and otherwise in
      accordance with the terms and conditions (including without limitation
      satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions) set forth in
      section 2 hereof, notwithstanding that the Participant's employment will
      have previously terminated.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if,
      after termination of employment but prior to vesting of all or a portion
      of the Awarded Shares, the Participant breaches any provision hereof,
      including without limitation the provisions of section 9 hereof, the
      Participant shall immediately forfeit all rights to the then-unvested
      Awarded Shares and any dividends theretofore paid on such then-unvested
      Awarded Shares.  Forfeited dividends shall be repaid to the
      Company within thirty (30) days after the date on which Participant's
      obligation to repay such dividends
accrues. 

(d) 

If
      a Participant's employment is terminated prior to vesting of all or a
      portion of the Awarded Shares for any reason other than as set forth in
      sections 4(a), (b) and (c) above, or if an ambiguity exists as to the
      interpretation of those sections, the Committee shall determine whether
      the Participant's then-unvested Awarded Shares shall be forfeited or
      whether the Participant shall be entitled to full vesting or pro rata
      vesting as set forth above based upon completed years of service during
      the Restriction Period, and any Awarded Shares which may vest shall do so
      on the vesting schedule and otherwise in accordance with the terms and
      conditions (including without limitation satisfaction of the applicable
      performance conditions) set forth in section 2 hereof, notwithstanding
      that the Participant's employment will have previously
      terminated.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, after
      termination of employment but prior to vesting of all or a portion of the
      Awarded Shares, the Participant breaches any provision hereof, including
      without limitation the provisions of section 9 hereof, the Participant
      shall immediately forfeit all rights to the then-unvested Awarded Shares
      and any dividends theretofore paid on such then-unvested Awarded
      Shares.  Forfeited dividends shall be repaid to the Company
      within thirty (30) days after the date on which Participant's obligation
      to repay such dividends accrues. 

[the following applies only to Mr.
Hay] Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employment Period (as defined in the
Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) is not then in effect, and
the Participant terminates employment for Good Reason (as defined in the
Participant's Employment Letter with the Company as in effect on the date hereof
(such Employment Letter, as in effect on the date hereof, the "Employment
Letter") or the Company terminates the Participant's employment without Cause
(as defined in the Employment Letter), then the Participant shall continue to
vest in the Awarded Shares on the schedule and otherwise on the terms and
conditions set forth in section 2 hereof until the date which is two years after
the date on which the Participant's employment is terminated.  Awarded
Shares which are scheduled to vest after the date which is two years after the
date on which the Participant's employment is terminated in accordance herewith
shall be forfeited effective on the date on which the Participant's employment
is terminated. 

5.            Income Taxes  - The
Participant shall notify the Company immediately of any election made with
respect to this Agreement under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.  Upon vesting and delivery of Awarded Shares to the
Participant, the Company shall have the right to withhold from any such
distribution, in order to meet the Company's obligations for the payment of
withholding taxes, shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to the
minimum statutory withholding for taxes (including federal and state income
taxes and payroll taxes applicable to the supplemental taxable income relating
to such distribution) and any other tax liabilities for which the Company has an
obligation relating to such distribution. 

6.            Nonassignability  - The
Participant's rights and interest in the Awarded Shares may not be assigned,
pledged, or transferred prior to vesting except, in the event of death, to a
designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution. 

7.            Effect Upon Employment  - This
Agreement is not to be construed as giving any right to the Participant for
continuous employment by the Company or a subsidiary or
affiliate.  The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates retain the
right to terminate the Participant at will and with or without cause at any time
(subject to any rights the Participant may have under the Participant's
Retention Agreement [and Employment Letter, in the case of Mr.
Hay]). 

8.            Successors   and Assigns  - This Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the Company and the
Participant and their respective heirs, successors and assigns. 

9.              Protective Covenants
- -   In consideration of the Awarded Shares granted under this
Agreement, the Participant covenants and agrees as follows: (the "Protective
Covenants"): 

(a)   

During
      the Participant's employment with the Company, and for a two-year period
      following the termination of the Participant's employment with the
      Company, Participant agrees (i) not to compete or attempt to compete for,
      or act as a broker or otherwise participate in, any projects in which the
      Company has at any time done any work or undertaken any development
      efforts, or (ii) directly or indirectly solicit any of the Company's
      customers, vendors, contractors, agents, or any other parties with which
      the Company has an existing or prospective business relationship, for the
      benefit of the Participant or for the benefit of any third party, nor
      shall the Participant accept consideration or negotiate or enter into
      agreements with such parties for the benefit of the Participant or any
      third party. 

(b)   

During
      the Participant's employment with the Company and for a two-year period
      following the termination of the Participant's employment with the
      Company, the Participant shall not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of
      the Participant or for any other business, person or entity, entice,
      induce or solicit or attempt to entice, induce or solicit any employee of
      the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates to leave the Company's
      employ (or the employ of such subsidiary or affiliate) or to hire or to
      cause any employee of the Company to become employed for any reason
      whatsoever. 

(c)   

The
      Participant shall not, at any time or in any way, disparage the Company or
      its current or former officers, directors, and employees, orally or in
      writing, or make any statements that may be derogatory or detrimental to
      the Company's good name or business
reputation. 

(d)   

The
      Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have an adequate
      remedy at law for monetary damages if the Participant breaches these
      Protective Covenants.  Therefore, in addition to all remedies to
      which the Company may be entitled for a breach or threatened breach of
      these Protective Covenants, including but not limited to monetary damages,
      the Company will be entitled to specific enforcement of these Protective
      Covenants and to injunctive or other equitable relief as a remedy for a
      breach or threatened breach.  In addition, upon any breach of
      these Protective Covenants or any separate confidentiality agreement or
      confidentiality provision between the Company and the Participant, all
      Participant's rights to receive theretofore unvested Awarded Shares and
      dividends relating thereto under this Agreement shall be
      forfeited. 

(e)   

For
      purposes of this section 9, the term "Company" shall include all
      subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company, including, without limitation,
      Florida Power   Light Company and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, and
      their respective subsidiaries and affiliates (such subsidiaries and
      affiliates being hereinafter referred to as the "FPL Entities"). The
      Company and the Participant agree that each of the FPL Entities is an
      intended third-party beneficiary of this section 9, and further agree that
      each of the FPL Entities is entitled to enforce the provisions of this
      section 9 in accordance with its
terms. 

(f)   

Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the terms of these
      Protective Covenants shall survive the termination of this Agreement and
      shall remain in effect. 

10.            Incorporation of Plan's Terms 
  This Agreement is made under and subject to the provisions of the Plan, and
all the provisions of the Plan are also provisions of this Agreement (including,
but not limited to, the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan pertaining to a
Change of Control, provided that if the Participant is a party to a Retention
Agreement, the provisions of section 2(b) hereof shall supercede the provisions
of the Plan with respect to a Change of Control).  If there is a
difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the
mandatory provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will
govern.  If there is a difference or conflict between the provisions
of this Agreement and a provision of the Plan as to which the Committee is
authorized to make a contrary determination, the provisions of this Agreement
will govern.  Except as otherwise expressly defined in this Agreement,
all capitalized terms used herein are used as defined in the
Plan.  The Company and Committee retain all authority and powers
granted by the Plan as it may be amended from time to time not expressly limited
by this Agreement.  The Participant acknowledges that he or she may
not and will not rely on any statement of account or other communication or
document issued in connection with the Plan other than the Plan, this Agreement,
and any document signed by an authorized representative of the Company that is
designated as an amendment of the Plan or this Agreement. 

11.            Interpretation  - The
Committee has the sole and absolute right to interpret the provisions of this
Agreement. 

12.            Governing Law/Jurisdiction  -
This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of
the State of Florida, without regard to its conflict of laws
principles.  All suits, actions, and proceedings relating to this
Agreement may be brought only in the courts of the State of Florida located in
Palm Beach County or in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida in West Palm Beach, Florida.  The Company and
Participant shall consent to the nonexclusive personal jurisdiction of the
courts described in this section 12 for the purpose of all suits, actions, and
proceedings relating to the Agreement or the Plan.  The Company and
the Participant each waive all objections to venue and to all claims that a
court chosen in accordance with this section is improper based on a venue or a
forum non conveniens claim. 

13.          Amendment -  This Agreement
may be amended, in whole or in part and in any manner not inconsistent with the
provisions of the Plan, at any time and from time to time, by written agreement
between the Company and the Participant. 

14.          Adjustments  - In the event of
any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock
dividend or split, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation,
combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change, then the number
of Awarded Shares shall be adjusted proportionately.  No adjustment
will be made in connection with the payment by the Company of any cash dividend
on its Common Stock or in connection with the issuance by the Company of any
warrants, rights, or options to acquire additional shares of Common Stock or of
securities convertible into Common Stock. 

15.          Data Privacy .  By
entering into this Agreement, the Participant:  (i) authorizes the
Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and any agent of the Company
or a subsidiary or affiliate administering the Plan or providing Plan
recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates such information and data as the Company or any such subsidiary or
affiliate shall reasonably request in order to facilitate the administration of
this Agreement; and (ii) authorizes the Company or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates to store and transmit such information in electronic form, provided
such information is appropriately safeguarded in accordance with Company
policy. 

By signing this Agreement, the
Participant accepts and agrees to all of the foregoing terms and provisions and
to all the terms and provisions of the Plan incorporated herein by reference and
confirms that he has received a copy of the Plan. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto
have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above
written. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

Name: 

                  Title: 

Participant 

Exhibit
"A" 

LEGEND
TO BE PLACED ON STOCK CERTIFICATE 

The
shares represented by this certificate are subject to the provisions of the
Amended and Restated FPL Group Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and a
Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "Agreement") between the holder hereof and
FPL Group, Inc. and may not be sold or transferred except in accordance
therewith.  Copies of the Plan and Agreement are kept on file by the
Vice President   Corporate Secretary of FPL Group,
Inc. 

</EX-10.(Q)>

<EX-10.(U)>
 6
 exhibit10u.htm
 EXHIBIT 10(U)

exhibit10u.htm 

Exhibit
10(u) 

      Form
of 

NON-QUALIFIED
STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 

under
the 

FPL
GROUP, INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

This Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement ("Agreement"), between FPL Group, Inc. (hereinafter called the
"Company") and the optionee identified on Schedule 1 attached hereto
("Optionee")   is
dated ______ ___, 20___. 

1.            Grant of
Option .  In accordance with and subject to the terms and
conditions of (a) the FPL Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive
Plan, as it may be amended from time to time (the "Plan") and (b) this
Agreement, the Company hereby grants to the Optionee a nonqualified stock option
(the "Option") to purchase the number of shares (the "Shares") of its common
stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), set forth on Schedule 1, at
the option exercise price per Share set forth in Schedule
1.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall
have the meanings set forth in the Plan. 

2.            Acceptance by
Optionee .  The exercise of the Option or any portion thereof is
conditioned upon acceptance by the Optionee of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, as evidenced by the Optionee's execution of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and the delivery of an executed copy of Schedule 1 to the
Company. 

3.            Vesting of
Option .  Subject to the terms and provisions hereof, including
Section 5 hereof, and the Plan, the Option shall vest and the Optionee may
exercise the Option in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in
Schedule 1. 

[  for Messrs. Hay, Robo, Bennett,
Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell, Rodriguez, Sieving and
Stal  l]  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if (i) the Optionee is a party to an Executive Retention Employment
Agreement with the Company ("Retention Agreement") and has not waived his or her
rights, either entirely or in pertinent part, under such Retention Agreement,
and (ii) the Effective Date (as defined in the Retention Agreement as in effect
on the date hereof) has occurred and the Employment Period (as defined in the
Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) has commenced and has not
terminated pursuant to section 3(b) of the Retention Agreement (as in effect on
the date hereof) then, so long as the Optionee is then employed by the Company
or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates, the Option shall vest upon a Change of
Control (as defined in the Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof),
in lieu of the vesting schedule set forth in Schedule 1. 

[  for Messrs. Cutler and
Davis  ]  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the rights of the Participant upon a Change of Control (as defined in
the Plan) shall be as set forth in section 9 of the Plan on the date hereof., in
lieu of the vesting schedule set forth in Schedule 1. 

If as a result of the Change of
Control, the Common Stock is exchanged for or converted into a different form of
equity security and/or the right to receive other property (including cash), the
Option may be exercised, to the maximum extent practicable, in the same
form. 

4.            Expiration of
Option .  The Option shall expire on the date set forth in
Schedule 1 (the "Expiration Date"), unless terminated earlier as set forth in
Section 5 below, and may not be exercised after the earlier of (i) the
Expiration Date and (ii) the earlier termination date established in accordance
with Section 5. 

5.            Termination of
Employment . 

In
the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company (or a subsidiary,
affiliate or successor of the Company) terminates for any reason prior to the
date on which the Option has been fully exercised, the Optionee's rights
hereunder will be determined as follows: 

(a) 

If
      the Optionee's termination of employment is due to resignation, discharge
      or retirement prior to age 65 which does not meet the condition set forth
      in Section 5(c), below, all rights to exercise the Option (or any portion
      thereof) which is not then vested shall be immediately forfeited, and all
      rights to exercise the vested portion of the Option shall expire on  [for Messrs. Hay, Robo,
      Bennett, Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell, Rodriguez, Sieving
      and Stall]  the Expiration Date  [for Messrs. Cutler and
      Davis]  the earlier to occur of (i) the Expiration Date and (ii)
      sixty (60) days after the date of termination of
    employment. 

(b) 

If
      the Optionee's termination of employment is due to (i) total and permanent
      disability (as defined under the Company's executive long-term disability
      plan), (ii) death or (iii) retirement on or after age 65 not meeting the
      condition set forth in section 5(c), below, a pro rata share of the
      then-unvested portion of the Option shall vest on the date of termination,
      based upon the number of completed days of service during the vesting
      period, and the vested portion of the Option shall be exercisable until
       [for Messrs. Hay, Robo,
      Bennett, Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell, Rodriguez, Sieving
      and Stall]  the Expiration Date  [for Messrs. Cutler and
      Davis]  the earlier to occur of (i) the Expiration Date and (ii) one
      (1) year after the date of termination of employment.  The
      portion of the Option which does not so vest shall be forfeited effective
      on the date of termination of
employment. 

(c) 

If
      the Optionee's termination of employment is due to retirement on or after
      age 50, and if, but only if, such retirement is evidenced by a writing
      which specifically acknowledges that this provision shall apply to such
      retirement and is executed by the Company's chief executive officer (or,
      if the Optionee is an executive officer, by a member of the Committee or
      the chief executive officer at the direction of the Committee, other than
      with respect to himself), the then-unvested portion of the Option shall
      vest on the date of termination and all outstanding Options granted hereby
      shall be exercisable until  [for Messrs. Hay, Robo,
      Bennett, Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell, Rodriguez, Sieving
      and Stall]  the Expiration Date  [for Messrs. Cutler and
      Davis]  the earlier to occur of (i) the Expiration Date and (ii) one
      (1) year after the date of termination of
  employment. 

(d) 

If
      an Optionee's employment is terminated for any reason other than as set
      forth in Sections 5(a), (b) and (c), above, or if an ambiguity exists as
      to the interpretation of those sections, the Committee shall determine
      whether the Optionee's then-unvested Options shall be forfeited or whether
      the Optionee shall be entitled to full vesting or to pro rata vesting
      based upon days of service during the vesting period, and shall also
      determine the period during which the Optionee may exercise any vested
      portion of the Option. 

[the following applies only to Mr.
Hay] Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Employment Period (as defined in the
Retention Agreement as in effect on the date hereof) is not then in effect, and
the Optionee terminates employment for Good Reason (as defined in the Optionee's
Employment Letter with the Company (as in effect on the date hereof, the
"Employment Letter") or the Company terminates the Optionee's employment without
Cause (as defined in the Employment Letter), then the Optionee shall continue to
vest in any theretofore unvested Shares on the schedule set forth in Schedule 1
attached hereto until the date which is two years after the date on which the
Optionee's employment is terminated, and all vested Shares may be exercised
until the Expiration Date.  Shares which are scheduled to vest after
the date which is two years after the date on which the Optionee's employment is
terminated shall be forfeited effective on the date Optionee's employment is
terminated. 

6.            Procedure for
Exercise .  Subject to this Agreement and the Plan, the Option
may be exercised in whole or in part by the transmittal of a written notice to
the Company at its principal place of business.  Such notice shall
specify the number of Shares which the Optionee elects to purchase, shall be
signed by the Optionee and shall be accompanied by payment of the exercise price
for the Shares which the Optionee elects to purchase.  Except as
otherwise provided by the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other
Board committee designated to administer the Plan (the "Committee") before the
Option is exercised, such payment may be made in whole or in part (i) by check
payable to the Company for the full exercise price plus the applicable tax
withholding resulting from such exercise; (ii) by delivery of shares of Common
Stock owned by the Optionee for at least six months and acceptable to the
Committee having an aggregate Fair Market Value (valued as of the date of
exercise) that is equal to the amount of cash that would otherwise be required;
or (iii) by authorizing a Company-approved third party to remit to the Company a
sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire exercise price and any
tax withholding from such exercise.  The Option shall not be
exercisable if and to the extent the Company determines that such exercise would
violate applicable State or Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations
of any securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded. If any
applicable law requires the Company to take any action with respect to the
Shares specified in the written notice of exercise, or if any action remains to
be taken under the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, as in
effect at the time, to effect due issuance of the Shares, then the Company shall
take such action and the day for delivery of such Shares shall be extended for
the period necessary to take such action.  No Optionee shall have any
of the rights of a shareholder of the Company under any Option unless and until
Shares are duly issued upon exercise of the Option. 

7.            Non-Transferability of Stock
Options .  The Option granted hereunder to the Optionee shall
not be transferable by the Optionee otherwise than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution, and such Option shall be exercisable, during the
lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee. 

8.            Effect Upon
Employment .  This Agreement is not to be construed as giving
any right to the Optionee for continuous employment by the Company or a
subsidiary or affiliate.  The Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates retain the right to terminate the Optionee at will and with or
without cause at any time  [for
Messrs. Hay, Robo, Bennett, Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell,
Rodriguez, Sieving and Stall]  (subject to any rights the Optionee may
have under the Optionee's Retention Agreement [and Employment Letter, in the
case of Mr. Hay]). 

9.               Protective Covenants .   In consideration of the
Non-Qualified Stock Option Award granted under this Agreement, the Optionee
covenants and agrees as follows (the "Protective Covenants"): 

(a)   

During
      the Optionee's employment with the Company, and for a two-year period
      following the termination of the Optionee's employment with the Company,
      Optionee agrees (i) not to compete or attempt to compete for, or act as a
      broker or otherwise participate in, any projects in which the Company has
      at any time done any work or undertaken any development efforts, or (ii)
      directly or indirectly solicit any of the Company's customers, vendors,
      contractors, agents, or any other parties with which the Company has an
      existing or prospective business relationship, for the benefit of the
      Optionee or for the benefit of any third party, nor shall the Optionee
      accept consideration or negotiate or enter into agreements with such
      parties for the benefit of the Optionee or any third
  party. 

(b)   

During
      the Optionee's employment with the Company and for a two-year period
      following the termination of the Optionee's employment with the Company,
      the Optionee shall not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of the Optionee
      or for any other business, person or entity, entice, induce or solicit or
      attempt to entice, induce or solicit any employee of the Company or its
      subsidiaries or affiliates to leave the Company's employ (or the employ of
      such subsidiary or affiliate) or to hire or to cause any employee of the
      Company to become employed for any reason
  whatsoever. 

(c)   

The
      Optionee shall not, at any time or in any way, disparage the Company or
      its current or former officers, directors, and employees, orally or in
      writing, or make any statements that may be derogatory or detrimental to
      the Company's good name or business
reputation. 

(d)   

The
      Optionee acknowledges that the Company would not have an adequate remedy
      at law for monetary damages if the Optionee breaches these Protective
      Covenants.  Therefore, in addition to all remedies to which the
      Company may be entitled for a breach or threatened breach of these
      Protective Covenants, including but not limited to monetary damages, the
      Company will be entitled to specific enforcement of these Protective
      Covenants and to injunctive or other equitable relief as a remedy for a
      breach or threatened breach.  In addition, upon any breach of
      these Protective Covenants or any separate confidentiality agreement or
      confidentiality provisions between the Company and the Optionee, all
      Optionee's rights to exercise the Option as to theretofore unvested Shares
      under this Agreement shall be
forfeited. 

(e)   

For
      purposes of this Section 9, the term "Company" shall include all
      subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company, including, without limitation,
      Florida Power   Light Company and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, and
      their respective subsidiaries and affiliates (such subsidiaries and
      affiliates being hereinafter referred to as the "FPL Entities"). The
      Company and the Optionee agree that each of the FPL Entities is an
      intended third-party beneficiary of this Section 9, and further agree that
      each of the FPL Entities is entitled to enforce the provisions of this
      Section 9 in accordance with its
terms. 

(f)   

Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the terms of these
      Protective Covenants shall survive the termination of this Agreement and
      shall remain in effect. 

10.            Successors   and Assigns - This Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the Company and the
Optionee and their respective heirs, successors and assigns. 

11.            Adjustments .  In
the event of any change in the outstanding Shares of Common Stock by reason of
any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, reclassification, merger,
consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change,
then the number of Shares granted under this Option shall be adjusted
proportionately.  No adjustment will be made in connection with the
payment by the Company of any cash dividend on its Common Stock or in connection
with the issuance by the Company of any warrants, rights, or options to acquire
additional Shares of Common Stock or of securities convertible into Common
Stock. 

12.            Compliance With Applicable
Law/Governing Law/  Jurisdiction .  The
issuance of the Shares pursuant to the exercise of this Option is subject to
compliance with all applicable laws, including without limitation laws governing
withholding from employees and nonresident aliens for income tax
purposes. 

This
Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
State of Florida, without regard to its conflict of laws
principles.  All suits, actions, and proceedings relating to this
Agreement may be brought only in the courts of the State of Florida located in
Palm Beach County or in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida in West Palm Beach, Florida.  The Company and
Optionee shall consent to the nonexclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts
described in this section for the purpose of all suits, actions, and proceedings
relating to the Agreement or the Plan.  The Company and Optionee each
waive all objections to venue and to all claims that a court chosen in
accordance with this section is improper based on a venue or a forum non
conveniens claim. 

13.            Incorporation of Plan's Terms 
- - This Agreement is made under and subject to the provisions of the Plan, and
all the provisions of the Plan are also provisions of this Agreement (including,
but not limited to, the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan pertaining to a
Change of Control  [for Messrs.
Hay, Robo, Bennett, Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell, Rodriguez,
Sieving and Stall]  provided that if the Optionee is a party to a
Retention Agreement, the provisions of Section 3 hereof shall supercede the
provisions of the Plan with respect to a Change of Control).  If there
is a difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the
mandatory provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will
govern.  If there is a difference or conflict between the provisions
of this Agreement and a provision of the Plan as to which the Committee is
authorized to make a contrary determination, the provisions of this Agreement
will govern.  Except as otherwise expressly defined in this Agreement,
all terms used herein are used as defined in the Plan as it may be amended from
time to time.  The Company and Committee retain all authority and
powers granted by the Plan as it may be amended from time to time not expressly
limited by this Agreement.  The Optionee acknowledges that he or she
may not and will not rely on any statement of account or other communication or
document issued in connection with the Plan other than the Plan, this Agreement,
and any document signed by an authorized representative of the Company that is
designated as an amendment of the Plan or this Agreement. 

14.            Interpretation.   The
Committee has the sole and absolute right to interpret the provisions of this
Agreement. 

15.            Amendment .  This
Agreement may be amended, in whole or in part and in any manner not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Plan, at any time and from time to time, by written
agreement between the Company and the Optionee. 

16.            Data Privacy .  By
entering into this Agreement, the Optionee:  (i) authorizes the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and any agent of the Company or a Subsidiary
administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to
the Company or any of its Subsidiaries such information and data as the Company
or any such Subsidiary shall reasonably request in order to facilitate the grant
of the Option, the exercise of the Option, or delivery of Shares upon exercise;
and (ii) authorizes the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to store and transmit
such information in electronic form, provided such information is appropriately
safeguarded in accordance with Company policy. 

By
signing this Agreement, the Optionee accepts and agrees to all of the foregoing
terms and provisions and to all the terms and provisions of the Plan
incorporated herein by reference and confirms that he has received a copy of the
Plan. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed as of the
Date of Grant set forth in Schedule 1. 

FPL
      GROUP, INC. 

By: 

Schedule
1 

Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement  

Name
      of Optionee: 

Date
      of Grant: 

Number
      of Shares: 

_______ shares
      of Common Stock 

Option
      Exercise Price Per Share: 

$______ 

Expiration
      Date: 

_______ (subject
      to earlier termination in accordance with 

                                     the
      attached Agreement) 

Vesting
      Schedule: 

The
      shares of Common Stock subject to this Option shall vest according to the
      following schedule: 

______
      shares on ______, 20___, 

                ______
      shares on ______, 20___ and 

                ______
      shares on ______, 20___ 

except
      that such Shares shall become fully vested upon the occurrence of a Change
      of Control if the Optionee is employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on
      such date,  [for Messrs.
      Hay, Robo, Bennett, Davidson, McGrath, Olivera, Pimentel, Poppell,
      Rodriguez, Sieving and Stall]  as more fully set forth in Section 3
      of the Agreement of which this Schedule is a part. 

[for Messrs. Cutler and
      Davis]  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change of Control"
      shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan as in effect on
      the date hereof. 

The
undersigned agrees to the terms and conditions of the Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement of which this Schedule 1 is a part. 

Date
      Accepted: 

By: 

</EX-10.(U)>

<EX-12.(A)>
 7
 exhibit12a.htm
 EXHIBIT 12(A)

exhibit12a.htm 

Exhibit
12(a) 

FPL
GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      COMPUTATION
OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND 

      RATIO
OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS (a)  

____________________ 

(a) 

FPL
      Group, Inc. has no preference equity securities outstanding; therefore,
      the ratio of earnings to fixed charges is the same as the ratio of
      earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock
      dividends. 

</EX-12.(A)>

<EX-12.(B)>
 8
 exhibit12b.htm
 EXHIBIT 12(B)

exhibit12b.htm 

Exhibit
12(b) 

FLORIDA
POWER   LIGHT COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      COMPUTATION
OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND 

      RATIO
OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS  (a)  

____________________ 

(a) 

Florida
      Power   Light Company s preference equity securities were redeemed in
      January 2005.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, preferred
      stock dividends were less than $1 million.  Therefore, for the
      years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the ratio of earnings
      to fixed charges is the same as the ratio of earnings to combined fixed
      charges and preferred stock
dividends. 

</EX-12.(B)>

<EX-21>
 9
 exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

exhibit21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

SUBSIDIARIES
OF FPL GROUP, INC. 

FPL
Group, Inc.'s principal subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 are listed
below. 

Subsidiary 

State
      or Jurisdiction 

                  of
      Incorporation 

1. 

Florida
      Power   Light Company (100%-owned) 

Florida 

2. 

FPL
      Group Capital Inc (100%-owned) 

Florida 

3. 

NextEra
      Energy Resources, LLC  (a)
      (b)  

Delaware 

4. 

Bay
      Loan and Investment Bank  (b)  

Rhode
      Island 

5. 

Palms
      Insurance Company, Limited  (b)  

Cayman
      Islands 

____________________ 

(a) 

Includes
      396 subsidiaries that operate in the United States and 33 subsidiaries
      that operate in foreign countries in the same line of business as NextEra
      Energy Resources, LLC 

(b) 

100%-owned
      subsidiary of FPL Group Capital Inc 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 exhibit23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

exhibit23.htm 

Exhibit
23 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration
Statements of our reports dated February 26, 2009, relating to the
consolidated financial statements of FPL Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (FPL
Group) and Florida Power   Light Company and subsidiaries (FPL) and the
effectiveness of FPL Group's and FPL's internal control over financial
reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of FPL Group and FPL for
the year ended December 31, 2008: 

DELOITTE
  TOUCHE LLP 

Miami,
Florida 

      February
26, 2009  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.(A)>
 11
 exhibit31a.htm
 EXHIBIT 31(A)

exhibit31a.htm 

Exhibit
31(a) 

Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I, Lewis
Hay, III, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31,
      2008 of FPL Group, Inc. (the registrant); 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b) 

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c) 

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a) 

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:   February
      26, 2009 

LEWIS
      HAY, III 

Lewis
      Hay, III 

                Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer 

                of
      FPL Group, Inc. 

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 12
 exhibit31b.htm
 EXHIBIT 31(B)

exhibit31b.htm 

Exhibit
31(b) 

Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I,
Armando Pimentel, Jr., certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31,
      2008 of FPL Group, Inc. (the registrant); 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b) 

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c) 

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a) 

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:   February 26,
      2009 

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                Executive
      Vice President, Finance 

                and
      Chief Financial Officer 

                of
      FPL Group, Inc. 

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-31.(C)>
 13
 exhibit31c.htm
 EXHIBIT 31(C)

exhibit31c.htm 

Exhibit
31(c) 

Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I,
Armando J. Olivera, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31,
      2008 of Florida Power   Light Company (the
  registrant); 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b) 

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c) 

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a) 

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:   February
      26, 2009 

ARMANDO
      J. OLIVERA 

Armando
      J. Olivera 

                  President
      and Chief Executive Officer 

                  of
      Florida Power   Light Company 

</EX-31.(C)>

<EX-31.(D)>
 14
 exhibit31d.htm
 EXHIBIT 31(D)

exhibit31d.htm 

Exhibit
31(d) 

Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I,
Armando Pimentel, Jr., certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31,
      2008 of Florida Power   Light Company (the
  registrant); 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b) 

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c) 

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a) 

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:   February 26,
      2009 

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                  Executive
      Vice President, Finance 

                  and
      Chief Financial Officer of 

                  Florida
      Power   Light Company 

</EX-31.(D)>

<EX-32.(A)>
 15
 exhibit32a.htm
 EXHIBIT 32(A)

exhibit32a.htm 

Exhibit
32(a) 

Section
1350 Certification 

We,
Lewis Hay, III and Armando Pimentel, Jr., certify, pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1) 

The
      Annual Report on Form 10-K of FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) for the annual
      period ended December 31, 2008 (Report) fully complies with the
      requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934; and 

(2) 

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of FPL
      Group. 

Dated:   February 26,
      2009 

LEWIS
      HAY, III 

Lewis
      Hay, III 

                Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer 

                of
      FPL Group, Inc. 

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                Executive
      Vice President, Finance and 

                Chief
      Financial Officer of FPL Group, Inc. 

A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
FPL Group and will be retained by FPL Group and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

The
foregoing certification is being furnished as an exhibit to the Report pursuant
to Item 601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 and, accordingly, is not being filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of the Report and is not to be incorporated by reference into
any filing of FPL Group under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (whether made before or after the date of the Report,
irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such
filing). 

</EX-32.(A)>

<EX-32.(B)>
 16
 exhibit32b.htm
 EXHIBIT 32(B)

exhibit32b.htm 

Exhibit
32(b) 

Section
1350 Certification 

We,
Armando J. Olivera and Armando Pimentel, Jr., certify, pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1) 

The
      Annual Report on Form 10-K of Florida Power   Light Company (FPL) for
      the annual period ended December 31, 2008 (Report) fully complies
      with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934; and 

(2) 

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
      FPL. 

Dated:   February 26,
      2009 

ARMANDO
      J. OLIVERA 

Armando
      J. Olivera 

                President
      and Chief Executive Officer of 

                Florida
      Power   Light Company 

ARMANDO
      PIMENTEL, JR. 

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr. 

                Executive
      Vice President, Finance 

                and
      Chief Financial Officer of 

                Florida
      Power   Light Company 

A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
FPL and will be retained by FPL and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request. 

The
foregoing certification is being furnished as an exhibit to the Report pursuant
to Item 601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 and, accordingly, is not being filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of the Report and is not to be incorporated by reference into
any filing of FPL under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (whether made before or after the date of the Report, irrespective
of any general incorporation language contained in such
filing). 

</EX-32.(B)>

