<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170223_10-K_edgar_data_753308_0000753308-17-000060_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>34487644</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1058677</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5157237</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>11647080</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>12618386</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3359970</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>136</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000753308-17-000060.hdr.sgml : 20170223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170223155753
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000753308-17-000060
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		138
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NEXTERA ENERGY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000753308
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				592449419
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08841
		FILM NUMBER:		17632370

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 UNIVERSE BLVD
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5616944000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 14000
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FPL GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000037634
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				590247775
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	002-27612
		FILM NUMBER:		17632371

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 UNIVERSE BLVD
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5616946333

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 14000
		CITY:			JUNO BEACH
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33408

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000753308-17-000060.txt : 20170223

10-K
 1
 nee-12312016x10k.htm
 10-K

Document 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  FORM 10-K 
    
  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016 

State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:   Florida 
                     
    Name of exchange on which registered 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
      
      NextEra Energy, Inc.: 
    Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value 
    New York Stock Exchange 
        
    6.371% Corporate Units 
    New York Stock Exchange 
        
    6.123% Corporate Units 
    New York Stock Exchange 
      Florida Power   Light Company:   None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrants are well-known seasoned issuers, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933.               NextEra Energy, Inc.    Yes          No   o      Florida Power   Light Company    Yes          No   o 

Indicate by check mark if the registrants are not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
               NextEra Energy, Inc.    Yes   o      No          Florida Power   Light Company    Yes   o      No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) have been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
               NextEra Energy, Inc.    Yes          No   o      Florida Power   Light Company    Yes          No   o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants have submitted electronically and posted on their corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months. 
               NextEra Energy, Inc.    Yes          No   o      Florida Power   Light Company    Yes          No   o 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrants' knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrants are a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
                       NextEra Energy, Inc. 
    Large Accelerated Filer     
    Accelerated Filer   o 
    Non-Accelerated Filer   o 
    Smaller Reporting Company   o 
      Florida Power   Light Company 
    Large Accelerated Filer   o 
    Accelerated Filer   o 
    Non-Accelerated Filer     
    Smaller Reporting Company   o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrants are shell companies (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).  Yes          No     
  Aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity of NextEra Energy, Inc. held by non-affiliates as of   June 30, 2016   (based on the closing market price on the Composite Tape on   June 30, 2016  ) was   $60,089,366,330  . 
  There was no voting or non-voting common equity of Florida Power   Light Company held by non-affiliates as of   June 30, 2016  . 
  Number of shares of NextEra Energy, Inc. common stock, $  0.01   par value, outstanding as of   January 31, 2017  :   467,581,899 
  Number of shares of Florida Power   Light Company common stock, without par value, outstanding as of   January 31, 2017  , all of which were held, beneficially and of record, by NextEra Energy, Inc.:   1,000    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of NextEra Energy, Inc.'s Proxy Statement for the   2017   Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof. 
  ________________________ 
  This combined Form 10-K represents separate filings by NextEra Energy, Inc. and Florida Power   Light Company. Information contained herein relating to an individual registrant is filed by that registrant on its own behalf. Florida Power   Light Company makes no representations as to the information relating to NextEra Energy, Inc.'s other operations. 
  Florida Power   Light Company meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I.(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing this Form with the reduced disclosure format. 

Table of Contents  

DEFINITIONS 
    
  Acronyms and defined terms used in the text include the following: 
                 Term 
    Meaning 
      AFUDC 
    allowance for funds used during construction 
      AFUDC - equity 
    equity component of AFUDC 
      AOCI 
    accumulated other comprehensive income 
      Bcf 
    billion cubic feet 
      capacity clause 
    capacity cost recovery clause, as established by the FPSC 
      CO   2  
    carbon dioxide 
      DOE 
    U.S. Department of Energy 
      Duane Arnold 
    Duane Arnold Energy Center 
      environmental clause 
    environmental cost recovery clause 
      EPA 
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
      ERCOT 
    Electric Reliability Council of Texas 
      FERC 
    U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
      Florida Southeast Connection 
    Florida Southeast Connection, LLC, a wholly owned NEER subsidiary 
      FPL 
    Florida Power   Light Company 
      FPSC 
    Florida Public Service Commission 
      fuel clause 
    fuel and purchased power cost recovery clause, as established by the FPSC 
      GAAP 
    generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. 
      GHG 
    greenhouse gas(es) 
      IPO 
    initial public offering 
      ISO 
    independent system operator 
      ITC 
    investment tax credit 
      kW 
    kilowatt 
      kWh 
    kilowatt-hour(s) 
      Management's Discussion 
    Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
      MMBtu 
    One million British thermal units 
      mortgage 
    mortgage and deed of trust dated as of January 1, 1944, from FPL to Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as supplemented and amended 
      MW 
    megawatt(s) 
      MWh 
    megawatt-hour(s) 
      NEE 
    NextEra Energy, Inc. 
      NEECH 
    NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. 
      NEER 
    NextEra Energy Resources, LLC 
      NEET 
    NextEra Energy Transmission, LLC 
      NEP 
    NextEra Energy Partners, LP 
      NEP OpCo 
    NextEra Energy Operating Partners, LP 
      NERC 
    North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
      Note __ 
    Note __ to consolidated financial statements 
      NOx 
    nitrogen oxide 
      NRC 
    U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
      NYISO 
    New York ISO 
      O M expenses 
    other operations and maintenance expenses in the consolidated statements of income 
      OCI 
    other comprehensive income 
      OTC 
    over-the-counter 
      OTTI 
    other than temporary impairment 
      PJM 
    PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
      PMI 
    NextEra Energy Marketing, LLC 
      Point Beach 
    Point Beach Nuclear Power Plant 
      PTC 
    production tax credit 
      PUCT 
    Public Utility Commission of Texas 
      PURPA 
    Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended 
      PV 
    photovoltaic 
      Recovery Act 
    The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as amended 
      regulatory ROE 
    return on common equity as determined for regulatory purposes 
      RFP 
    request for proposal 
      ROE 
    return on common equity 
      RPS 
    renewable portfolio standards 
      RTO 
    regional transmission organization 
      Sabal Trail 
    Sabal Trail Transmission, LLC, an entity in which a NEER subsidiary has a 42.5% ownership interest 
      Seabrook 
    Seabrook Station 
      SEC 
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
      SO   2  
    sulfur dioxide 
      U.S. 
    United States of America 

NEE, FPL, NEECH and NEER each has subsidiaries and affiliates with names that may include NextEra Energy, FPL, NextEra Energy Resources, NextEra, FPL Group, FPL Group Capital, FPL Energy, FPLE, NEP and similar references. For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms NEE, FPL, NEECH and NEER are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific subsidiaries, affiliates or groups of subsidiaries or affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context. 
  
   2 

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
                     
    Page No. 
       Definitions  
    2 
       Forward-Looking Statements  
    3 
        
     PART I  

Item 1.  
     Business  
    4 
       Item 1A.  
     Risk Factors  
    22 
       Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    34 
       Item 2.  
     Properties  
    34 
       Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
    34 
       Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    34 
        
     PART II  

Item 5.  
     Market for Registrants' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    35 
       Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
    36 
       Item 7.  
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    37 
       Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    60 
       Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    61 
       Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    117 
       Item 9A.  
     Controls and Procedures  
    117 
       Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    117 
        
     PART III  

Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    118 
       Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    118 
       Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    118 
       Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    118 
       Item 14.  
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    119 
        
     PART IV  

Item 15.  
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    120 
       Item 16.  
     Form 10-K Summary  
    127 

Signatures  
      
    128 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
    
  This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, strategies, future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as may result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, believe, will, could, should, would, estimated, may, plan, potential, future, projection, goals, target, outlook, predict and intend or words of similar meaning) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward looking. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, important factors included in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on NEE's and/or FPL's operations and financial results, and could cause NEE's and/or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of NEE and/or FPL in this combined Form 10-K, in presentations, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. 
    
  Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and NEE and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including, but not limited to, unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. 
  
   3 

Table of Contents  

PART I 

Item 1.  Business 

OVERVIEW 
    
  NEE is one of the largest electric power companies in North America and, through its subsidiary NEER and its affiliated entities, is the largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun in the world based on 2016 MWh produced. NEE also owns and/or operates generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services to retail and wholesale customers, and has investments in gas infrastructure assets. NEE also provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption related to its own generation assets and for a limited number of wholesale customers in selected markets. NEE's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. As of   December 31, 2016  , NEE's business included the following: 

approximately 45,900 MW of generating capacity with electric generation facilities located in 30 states in the U.S., 4 provinces in Canada and in Spain; 
                
    approximately 16% of the installed base of U.S. wind power production capacity; 
                
    approximately 11% of the installed base of U.S. universal solar power production capacity; 
                
    one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the U.S., with 8 reactors at 5 sites located in 4 states, representing approximately 6% of U.S. nuclear power electric generating capacity; 
                
    a generation fleet with significantly lower rates of emissions of CO   2   , SO   2    and NO   x    than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry with approximately 98% of its 2016 generation, measured by MWh produced, coming from renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities; 
                 
    more than 5.4 million retail and wholesale electric customer accounts; and 
        
  NEE was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly owned subsidiaries, FPL and NEER. NEECH, another wholly owned subsidiary of NEE, owns and provides funding for NEER's and NEE's operating subsidiaries, other than FPL and its subsidiaries. During 2014, NEE formed NEP to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. See NEER section below for further discussion of NEP. When discussed in this combined Form 10-K, NEE's and NEER's generating capacity as of   December 31, 2016   includes approximately 971 MW associated with noncontrolling interests related to NEP. 

NEE's two principal businesses, FPL and NEER, also constitute NEE's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. See Note 14 for certain financial information about these segments. NEE seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. NEE's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both FPL and NEER. Management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities available to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by FPL and NEER is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to NEE's credit profile in different ways. FPL and NEER, as well as other NEE subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. NEE and its subsidiaries continue to develop and implement enterprise wide initiatives focused mainly on improving productivity and reducing O M expenses (cost savings initiatives). 
    
  In July 2016, NEE announced a proposed merger (EFH merger) under which a newly formed subsidiary of NEE will acquire 100% of the equity of reorganized Energy Future Holdings Corp. (reorganized EFH) and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect ownership of approximately 80% of the outstanding equity interests of Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC  
  
   4 

     Table of Contents  

(Oncor), a regulated electric distribution and transmission business that operates the largest distribution and transmission system in Texas. The merger agreement (EFH merger agreement) provides that the consideration for the transaction funded by NEE will be $9.796 billion, which will be paid almost all in cash, with the balance in shares of NEE common stock. The amount of consideration will be subject to adjustment as provided in the EFH merger agreement. In late October 2016, additional agreements were entered into with other parties that, when combined with the EFH merger agreement, if completed, would result in NEE owning 100% of Oncor. The aggregate consideration to be paid by NEE under these additional agreements will be approximately $2.4 billion and will be subject to adjustment as provided in the additional agreements. On February 17, 2017, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed Energy Future Holdings Corp.'s Eighth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization. Completion and actual closing dates of the EFH merger and the other Oncor-related transactions remain subject to, among other things, approval by the PUCT and receipt of a supplemental private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The PUCT hearings regarding the merger transactions were conducted the week of February 20, 2017. NEE, EFH and the other parties to the EFH merger agreement, and the parties to the other Oncor-related transaction agreements, have certain specified termination rights. NEE expects the EFH merger and the other Oncor-related transactions to be completed in the first half of 2017. See Note 7 - Pending Oncor-Related Transactions.  
    
  In January 2017, a subsidiary of NEE completed the sale of its fiber-optic telecommunications business (FPL FiberNet)   for net cash proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion, after repayment of $370 million of related long-term debt.   See Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale. 

FPL 
    
  FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in Florida. FPL is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. based on retail MWh sales. At December 31, 2016, FPL had approximately 26,000 MW of net generating capacity, 74,800 miles of transmission and distribution lines and 600 substations. FPL provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. At   December 31, 2016  , FPL served approximately 10 million people through approximately   4.9 million   customer accounts. FPL's service territory, which covers most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida, and plant locations as of December 31, 2016 were as follows (see Sources of Generation below): 

5 

     Table of Contents  

CUSTOMERS AND REVENUE 
    
  FPL's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within Florida. The percentage of FPL's operating revenues and customer accounts     by customer class were as follows: 

For both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that FPL may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the FPSC in the case of retail customers, and by the FERC in the case of wholesale customers. In general, under U.S. and Florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. Since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that FPL will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. See FPL Regulation below. 
    
  FPL seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. Since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low-cost position, including the implementation of ideas generated from the cost savings initiatives discussed above. A common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kWh of consumption per month for a residential customer. FPL's   2016   average bill for 1,000 kWh of monthly residential usage was the lowest among reporting electric utilities within Florida and well below the July 2016 national average (the latest date for which this data is available) as indicated below: 

6 

     Table of Contents  

FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS AND COMPETITION 
    
  FPL's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. During the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and FPL has the right to offer electric service to residents. FPL currently holds     180     franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through     2046. These franchise agreements cover approximately 88% of FPL's retail customer base in Florida. FPL also provides service to 13     other municipalities and to 21 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. FPL relies upon Florida law for access to public rights of way. 
    
  Because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, FPL effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. As a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since FPL's cost of service is lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. Changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that FPL currently enjoys; however, FPL seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service.  
    
  In addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, FPL also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. In each of 2016, 2015 and 2014, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately five percent of FPL's total operating revenues. 
    
  For the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 MW or greater, the FPSC requires investor-owned electric utilities, including FPL, to issue an RFP except when the FPSC determines that an exception from the RFP process is in the public interest. The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. 
  
   7 

     Table of Contents  

FPL SOURCES OF GENERATION 
    
  At   December 31, 2016  , FPL's resources for serving load consisted of     26,836 MW, of which 26,017 MW were from FPL-owned facilities and approximately 819     MW were available through purchased power agreements, including 330 MW associated with a coal-fired generation facility located in Indiantown, Florida that FPL purchased in January 2017 (Indiantown generation facility) (see Note 13 - Contracts). FPL owned and operated 33 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, and had joint ownership interests in 3 coal units with an aggregate generating capacity of 22,305 MW. In addition, FPL owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated 4 nuclear units with generating capacity totaling 3,453 MW (see Nuclear Operations below) and     5 solar generation facilities with generating capacity totaling 259     MW (excluding 75 MW of non-incremental solar capability which is provided through a natural gas generation facility). FPL customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPL's service territory. Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. 
    
  Fuel Sources 
    
  FPL relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generation facilities, the ability of some of its generation facilities to operate on both natural gas and oil, and on purchased power to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix in order to respond to market and industry developments.  

*Oil is less than 1% 
    *Oil and Solar are collectively less than 1% 

Significant Fuel Contracts.     As of   December 31, 2016  , FPL had the following significant fuel contracts in place: 

FPL has firm transportation contracts for existing natural gas pipeline capacity with five     different transportation suppliers, which provide for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 1,969,000 MMBtu/day with expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2036. Together, these contracts are     expected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through mid-2017. To the extent desirable, FPL also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from the five transportation suppliers. 
                
    FPL has 25-year natural gas transportation agreements with each of Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection for a quantity of 400,000 MMBtu/day beginning in mid-2017 and increasing to 600,000 MMBtu/day in mid-2020. These new agreements, when combined with FPL's existing agreements, are expected to satisfy substantially all of FPL's natural gas transportation needs through at least 2020. FPL's firm commitments under the new agreements are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including the completion of construction of the pipeline system to be built by Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection. See NEER - Generation and Other Operations - Other Operations below and Note 13 - Contracts. 
                
    FPL has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPL's anticipated needs for natural gas. The remainder of FPL's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. FPL has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2018. 
                
    FPL has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late February 2017 through 2031. 

8 

     Table of Contents  

Nuclear Operations 
    
  At   December 31, 2016  , FPL owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units in Florida with a total net generating capacity of 3,453 MW. FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. 

NRC regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. FPL's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 commencing in 2043. 
    
  FPL's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. 
    
  Projects to Add Additional Capacity 
    
  FPL is in the process of adding the following additional capacity during the term of the 2016 rate agreement (see FPL Rate Regulation - Base Rates - Rates Effective January 2017 through December 2020 below):  
             
    an approximately 1,750 MW natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in Okeechobee County, Florida (Okeechobee Clean Energy Center), with a planned in-service date of mid-2019; and 
        
  FPL ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING 
    
  FPL's Energy Marketing   Trading division (EMT) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. Prior to January 2017, EMT had utilized derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. Under the 2016 rate agreement that is effective beginning January 2017 and discussed below, EMT will not enter into any new derivative instruments to manage its commodity price risk for the term of the 2016 rate agreement. Substantially all of the results of EMT's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. See Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3. 
    
  FPL REGULATION 
    
  FPL's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following: 

the FPSC, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things; 
                
    the FERC, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build and operate interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things; 
                
    the NERC, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the FERC, to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts; 
                
    the NRC, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and 
                
    the EPA, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. The EPA also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts. 

9 

     Table of Contents  

FPL Rate Regulation 
    
  The FPSC sets rates at a level that is intended to allow FPL the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to FPL's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses. 
    
  Base Rates  .   In general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. These basic costs include O M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). At the time base rates are established, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the FPSC's determination of FPL's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed ROE. The FPSC monitors FPL's actual regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC. The FPSC does not provide assurance that any regulatory ROE will be achieved. Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. Proceedings can occur at the initiative of FPL or upon action by the FPSC. Base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the FPSC. 
    
  Rates Effective January 2017 through December 2020   - In December 2016, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between FPL and several intervenors in FPL's base rate proceeding (2016 rate agreement). Key elements of the 2016 rate agreement, which is effective from January 2017 through at least December 2020, include, among other things, the following:  

New retail base rates and charges were established resulting in the following increases in annualized retail base revenues: 
                  
    $200 million when the Okeechobee Clean Energy Center achieves commercial operation, which is expected to occur in mid-2019. 
                
    In addition, FPL is eligible to receive, subject to conditions specified in the 2016 rate agreement, base rate increases associated with the addition of up to 300 MW annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020 and may carry forward any unused MW to subsequent years during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. FPL will be required to demonstrate that any proposed solar facilities are cost effective and scheduled to be in service before December 31, 2021. FPL has agreed to an installed cost cap of $1,750 per kW. 
                
    FPL's allowed regulatory ROE is 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%. If FPL's earned regulatory ROE falls below 9.60%, FPL may seek retail base rate relief. If the earned regulatory ROE rises above 11.60%, any party other than FPL may seek a review of FPL's retail base rates. 
                
    Subject to certain conditions, FPL may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to $1.0 billion of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount remaining under FPL's 2012 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $250 million), provided that in any year of the 2016 rate agreement, FPL must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.60% earned regulatory ROE but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory ROE in excess of 11.60%. 
                
    Future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kWh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. Any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. If storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, FPL may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover amounts above $400 million. 
       
  In January 2017, the Sierra Club filed a notice of appeal challenging the FPSC s final order approving the 2016 rate agreement, which notice of appeal is pending before the Florida Supreme Court. 
    
  Rates Effective January 2013 through December 2016 -   Effective January 2013, pursuant to an FPSC final order approving a stipulation and settlement between FPL and several intervenors in FPL's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement), new retail base rates and charges for FPL were established resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis. The 2012 rate agreement, provided for, among other things, the following: 
     a regulatory ROE of 10.50% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points; 
             
    an increase in annualized base revenue requirements as each of three FPL modernized power plants became operational in April 2013, April 2014 and April 2016; 
                
    the continuation of cost recovery through the capacity clause (reported as retail base revenues) for a generating unit which was placed in service in May 2011 (beginning January 2017, under the 2016 rate agreement, cost recovery will be through base rates); 
                
    subject to certain conditions, the right to reduce depreciation expense up to $400 million (reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, FPL was required to amortize enough reserve to maintain an earned regulatory ROE within the range of 9.50% to 11.50% (see below regarding a subsequent reduction in the reserve amount); 
                
    an interim cost recovery mechanism for storm restoration costs (see Note 1 - Securitized Storm-Recovery Costs, Storm Fund and Storm Reserve); and 
     
   10 

     Table of Contents  

an incentive mechanism whereby customers receive 100% of certain gains, including but not limited to gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold were shared by FPL and its customers. 
       
  In August 2015, the FPSC approved a stipulation and settlement between the Office of Public Counsel and FPL regarding issues relating to the ratemaking treatment for FPL s purchase of a 250 MW coal-fired generation facility located in Jacksonville, Florida (Cedar Bay generation facility), which FPL retired in December 2016. As part of this settlement, the amount of the reserve was reduced by $30 million to $370 million.  
    
  Cost Recovery Clauses  .   Cost recovery clauses are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses. Cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kWh or kW, depending on the customer's rate class. These cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates. FPL recovers costs from customers through the following clauses: 

Fuel - fuel costs and energy charges relating to purchased power agreements, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues (see Note 1 - Rate Regulation); 
                
    Capacity - primarily capacity payments to non-utility generators and other utilities and certain costs associated with the acquisition of the Cedar Bay generation facility (see Note 1 - Rate Regulation); 
                
    Energy Conservation - costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs; and 
                
    Environmental - certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 and costs associated with three of FPL's solar facilities. 
       
  The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. These costs may include, among others, fuel and O M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. 
    
  FERC 
    
  The Federal Power Act grants the FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the FERC which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of FERC-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. The Federal Power Act also gives the FERC authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. See NERC below. Electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the FERC. The FERC also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates. 
    
  NERC 
    
  The NERC has been certified by the FERC as the national electric reliability organization. The NERC's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the North American bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by FERC. The NERC's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the FERC. FPL is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them. 
    
  FPL Environmental Regulation 
    
  FPL is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below. FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. 
    
  FPL EMPLOYEES 
    
  FPL had approximately 8,900 employees at   December 31, 2016  . Approximately 34% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that expires October 31, 2017. 

NEER 
    
  NEER, a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware, was formed in 1998 to aggregate NEE's competitive energy businesses. NEER is a diversified clean energy company with a business strategy that emphasizes the development, acquisition and operation of long-term contracted assets with a focus on renewable projects. Through its subsidiaries, NEER currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the U.S., as well  
  
   11 

     Table of Contents  

as in Canada and Spain. See Note 14 for information on revenues from foreign sources and long lived assets located in foreign countries. NEER, with approximately 19,882 MW of generating capacity at   December 31, 2016  , is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with approximately 18,862 MW of generating capacity across 29 states, and has 920 MW of generating capacity in 4 Canadian provinces and 99.8 MW of generating capacity in Spain. NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. NEER is the largest generator in the world of electric power from wind and universal solar energy projects based on 2016 MWh produced. NEER also owned and operated approximately 200 substations and 1,240 circuit miles of transmission lines at   December 31, 2016  . 
    
  NEER also engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generation assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. These contracts primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as provide full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offer customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. In addition, NEER participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production primarily through non-operating ownership interests, and in pipeline infrastructure development, construction, management and operations, through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business. NEER also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements.  
    
  As discussed in the Overview above, during 2014, NEP was formed to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. Through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, NEE owns 101,440,000 common units of NEP OpCo representing a noncontrolling interest in NEP's operating projects of approximately 65.2% as of   December 31, 2016  .     NEE owns a controlling general partner interest in NEP and consolidates NEP for financial reporting purposes. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP. As of   December 31, 2016  , NEP, through the combination of NEER's contribution of energy projects to NEP OpCo in connection with NEP s IPO in July 2014 and the acquisition of additional energy projects from NEER in 2015 and 2016, owns, or has an interest in, a portfolio of   22   wind and solar projects with generating capacity totaling approximately   2,787   MW and long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets as discussed below. In addition in 2015, NEP OpCo issued 2 million NEP OpCo Class B Units to NEER in exchange for an approximately 50% ownership interest in three solar projects with a total generating capacity of 277 MW. NEER, as holder of the Class B Units, will retain 100% of the economic interests if, and until, NEER offers to sell the economic interests to NEP and NEP accepts such offer. NEP OpCo has a right of first offer for certain of NEER's assets (ROFO assets) if NEER should seek to sell the assets. The ROFO assets remaining as of   December 31, 2016  , include contracted wind and solar projects with a combined capacity of approximately 1,076 MW. In 2015, NEP completed the acquisition of the membership interests in NET Holdings Management, LLC (Texas pipeline business), a developer, owner and operator of a portfolio of seven intrastate long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in Texas (Texas pipelines). See Generation and Other Operations - Contracted, Merchant and Other Operations - Other Operations below. 

12 

     Table of Contents  

GENERATION AND OTHER OPERATIONS 
    
  NEER sells products associated with its own generation facilities (energy, capacity, renewable energy credits (RECs) and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located. Customer transactions may be supplied from NEER generation facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof. See Markets and Competition below. 
    
  At   December 31, 2016  , NEER managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects and all of its natural gas pipeline assets in which it has an ownership interest. At   December 31, 2016  , the locations of NEER's generation facilities and natural gas pipeline assets in North America were as follows: 

13 

     Table of Contents  

Contracted, Merchant and Other Operations 
    
  NEER's portfolio of generation operations based on the presence/absence of long-term power sales agreements and other operations was as follows:  

*Solar is less than 1% 

Contracted Generation Assets.   Contracted generation assets are generation facilities with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their capacity and/or energy output. Information related to contracted generation assets as of   December 31, 2016   was as follows: 
             
    represented approximately 15,994 MW of generating capacity; 
                
    weighted average remaining contract term of approximately 17 years, based on forecasted contributions to earnings; and 
                
    contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from late February 2017 through 2032 (see Note 13 - Contracts). 

14 

     Table of Contents  

Merchant Generation Assets.   Merchant generation assets are generation facilities that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their capacity and/or energy output and therefore require active marketing and hedging. Information related to merchant generation assets as of   December 31, 2016   was as follows: 
             
    represented approximately 3,888 MW of generating capacity, including 781 MW of oil-fired peak generation facilities; 
                
    primarily located in Texas and the Northeast regions of the U.S.; 
                
    contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel have expiration dates ranging from August 2017 through 2029 (see Note 13 - Contracts); and 
                
    utilize swaps, options, futures and forwards to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. 
       
  Other Operations. 
    
  Gas Infrastructure Business   - At December 31, 2016, NEER had approximately $3.5 billion invested in the natural gas pipelines discussed below and ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in the Midwest and South regions of the U.S. 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    A portfolio of seven natural gas pipelines, of which a third party owns a 10% interest in a 120 mile pipeline with a daily capacity of approximately 2.3 Bcf. The pipelines have a total existing capacity of approximately 4 Bcf per day, of which 3 Bcf per day is contracted with firm ship-or-pay contracts that have a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 14 years.  
              (b) 
    See FPL - FPL Sources of Generation - Fuel Sources - Significant Fuel Contracts and Note 13 - Commitments and - Contracts. 
              (c) 
    Construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including FERC approval. See Note 13 - Commitments. 
       
  Customer Supply and Proprietary Power and Gas Trading -   NEER provides commodities-related products to customers, engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities and includes the operations of a retail electricity provider. Through its subsidiary PMI, NEER: 
             
    manages risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and optimizes the value of NEER's power generation and gas infrastructure production assets through the use of swaps, options, futures and forwards; 
                
    sells output from NEER's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures fossil fuel for use by NEER's generation fleet; 
                
    provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers; and 
                
    markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and fuel commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. 

15 

     Table of Contents  

NEER Fuel/Technology Mix 
    
  NEER owns and operates the majority of its generation facilities, which utilize the following mix of fuel sources:  

*Oil is less than 1% 

Wind Facilities 

located in 20 states in the U.S. and 4 provinces in Canada; 
                
    approximately 12,008 MW is from contracted wind assets located primarily throughout the West and Midwest regions of the U.S. and Canada; 
                
    approximately 1,844 MW is from merchant wind assets located in Texas; 
                 
    expects to add new contracted wind generation of approximately 2,400 to 4,100 MW and approximately 1,600 MW of additional repowering generation within the existing U.S. wind portfolio in 2017 to 2018 (see Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects below for additional discussion of NEER's expectations regarding wind development, construction and retrofitting). 
       
  Solar Facilities 

ownership interests in and operated the majority of PV and solar thermal facilities with a total net generating capacity of 2,108 MW at   December 31, 2016  ; 
                
    located in 11 states in the U.S., 1 province in Canada and 1 province in Spain; 
                
    essentially all MW is from contracted solar facilities located primarily throughout the West region of the U.S.; 
         
  Fossil Facilities 

ownership interests in and operated natural gas generation facilities with a total net generating capacity of 420 MW at   December 31, 2016  ; approximately 262 MW is contracted and 158 MW is merchant; located in 3 states in the Northeast region of the U.S.;  
                
    completed the sales of its ownership interests in merchant natural gas generation facilities located in Texas with a total generating capacity of   2,884   MW and in natural gas generation facilities located primarily in Pennsylvania with a total generating capacity of   840   MW (see Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale); and 
                
    owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated oil-fired peak generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 781 MW at December 31, 2016 primarily located in Maine. 
       
  Nuclear Facilities 
    
  At   December 31, 2016  , NEER owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 MW. NEER's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. Scheduled nuclear refueling outages  
  
   16 

     Table of Contents  

typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    In 2010, NEER filed an application with the NRC to renew Seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is dependent on NRC regulatory approvals. 
              (b) 
    NEER sells all of its share of the output of Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in December 2025. 
              (c) 
    NEER sells all of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates. 
       
  NEER is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. NRC regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. 
    
  NEER's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. 
    
  Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects 
    
  U.S. federal, state and local governments have established various incentives to support the development of renewable energy projects. These incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, PTCs, ITCs, cash grants, tax abatements and RPS programs. Wind and solar projects qualify as five-year property that is eligible to be depreciated under the U.S. federal Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS). Pursuant to MACRS, wind and solar projects are fully depreciated for tax purposes over a five-year period even though the useful life of such projects is generally much longer than five years. 
    
  Owners of utility-scale wind facilities are eligible to claim an income tax credit (the PTC, or an ITC in lieu of the PTC) upon initially achieving commercial operation. The PTC is determined based on the amount of electricity produced by the wind facility during the first ten years of commercial operation. This incentive was created under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and has been extended several times. Alternatively, an ITC equal to 30% of the cost of a wind facility may be claimed in lieu of the PTC. In December 2015, the PTC (and ITC in lieu of PTC) for wind facilities was extended for five years, subject to the phase-down schedule in the table below. In order to qualify for the PTC (or ITC in lieu of PTC), construction of a wind facility must begin before a specified date. The IRS previously issued guidance setting forth two alternatives pursuant to which a taxpayer may begin construction on a wind facility and providing that the taxpayer must maintain a continuous program of construction or continuous efforts to advance the project to completion. In May 2016, the IRS issued additional guidance relating to the December 2015 extension and phase-down of the PTC and ITC for wind facilities. In general, this guidance modifies and extends the safe harbor for the continuous efforts and continuous construction requirements to four years compared to two years under the previous guidance. The safe harbor will generally be satisfied if the facility is placed in service no more than four calendar years after the calendar year in which construction of the facility began. The IRS also confirmed that retrofitted wind facilities may re-qualify for PTCs or ITCs pursuant to the 5% safe harbor for the begin construction requirement, as long as the cost basis of the new investment is at least 80% of the facility s total fair value.  
    
  Owners of solar projects are eligible to claim a 30% ITC for new solar projects, or can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the U.S. Department of Treasury for the value of the 30% ITC (convertible ITC) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. In December 2015, the 30% ITC for new solar projects was extended, subject to the following phase-down schedule.  

_________________________ 
           (a) 
    Percentage of the full PTC available for wind projects that begin construction during the applicable year. 
        
  Other countries, including Canada and Spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. The feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. 

17 

     Table of Contents  

MARKETS AND COMPETITION 
    
  Electricity markets in the U.S. and Canada are regional and diverse in character. All are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. The nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. Generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, NEER may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. NEER's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing. 
    
  The degree and nature of competition that NEER faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. During 2016, approximately 86% of NEER's revenue was derived from wholesale electricity markets. 
    
  Wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. NEER primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of NEER's generation assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. Wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. As such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies NEER competes with depending on the market. In wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services. 
    
  In general, U.S. electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. Energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of MW capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services that relate to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. The exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. Not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region. 
    
  RTOs and ISOs exist throughout much of North America to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. NEER operates in all RTO and ISO jurisdictions. As of   December 31, 2016  , NEER also had operations of approximately 3,114 MWs that fall within reliability regions that are not under the jurisdiction of an established RTO or ISO, including 2,519 MWs within the Western Electricity Coordinating Council. Although each RTO and ISO may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. NEER has operations that fall within the following RTOs and ISOs: 

18 

     Table of Contents  

NEER competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generation facilities, and, as of   December 31, 2016  , approximately 80% of NEER's generating capacity was committed under long-term contracts. Where long-term contracts are not in effect, NEER sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. In such cases, NEER will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. Such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that NEER expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP. Contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under GAAP are referred to as  non-qualifying hedges  for adjusted earnings purposes. See Management's Discussion - Overview - Adjusted Earnings. 
    
  Certain facilities within the NEER wind and solar generation portfolio produce RECs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts, or may be sold separately for the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts. The purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes. 
    
  While the majority of NEER's revenue is derived from the output of its generation facilities, NEER is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. In the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements. 
    
  Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for NEER. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. NEER seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities. 
    
  NEER REGULATION 
    
  The energy markets in which NEER operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules. 
    
  At   December 31, 2016  , NEER had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the U.S. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, which represent approximately 99% of NEER's net generating capacity in the U.S. Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. NEER's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. Essentially all of the remaining 1% of NEER's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the PURPA. NEER's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the Federal Power Act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. While projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws. 
    
  Additionally, most of the NEER facilities located in the U.S. are subject to FERC regulations and market rules and the NERC's mandatory reliability standards, all of its facilities are subject to environmental laws and the EPA's environmental regulations, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC. See FPL - FPL Regulation for additional discussion of FERC, NERC, NRC and EPA regulations. With the exception of facilities located in ERCOT, the FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of NEER's business in the U.S., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. The PUCT has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over NEER facilities located in ERCOT. 
    
  NEER and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in Canada and Spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. In Canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. In Ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the Ontario Energy Board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the Independent Electricity System Operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the Ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the NERC.  
    
  In addition, NEER is subject to environmental laws and regulations as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below. In order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, NEER continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities. 

19 

     Table of Contents  

NEER EMPLOYEES 
    
  NEER and its subsidiaries had approximately 5,300 employees at   December 31, 2016  . Certain subsidiaries of NEER have collective bargaining agreements with the IBEW, the Utility Workers Union of America, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America and the International Union of Operating Engineers, which collectively represent approximately 17% of NEER's employees. The collective bargaining agreements have three- to five-year terms and expire between 2018 and 2021. 

NEE ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 
    
  NEE and FPL are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, for the siting, construction and ongoing operations of their facilities. The U.S. Congress and certain states and regions, as well as the Government of Canada and its provinces, have taken and continue to take certain actions, such as proposing and finalizing regulation or setting targets or goals, regarding the reduction of GHG emissions and the increase of renewable energy generation. Numerous environmental regulations also affecting FPL, NEER and certain other subsidiaries relate to threatened and endangered species and their habitats,     as well as other avian and bat species. Complying with these environmental laws and regulations results in, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. The impact of complying with current environmental laws and regulations has not had, and, along with compliance with proposed regulations as currently written, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of NEE and FPL. As permitted by the environmental clause, FPL expects to seek recovery for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations. 
    
  WEBSITE ACCESS TO SEC FILINGS 
    
  NEE and FPL make their SEC filings, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on NEE's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information and materials available on NEE's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

20 

Table of Contents  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF NEE   (a)   
                           Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      
    Effective Date 
      Miguel Arechabala 
      
    56 
      
    Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of NEE Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPL 
      
    January 1, 2014 
      Deborah H. Caplan 
      
    54 
      
    Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of NEE Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of FPL 
      
    April 15, 2013 
      Terrell Kirk Crews, II 
      
    38 
      
    Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of NEE 
      
    September 19, 2016 
      Paul I. Cutler 
      
    57 
      
    Treasurer of NEE 
  Treasurer of FPL 
  Assistant Secretary of NEE 
      
    February 19, 2003 
  February 18, 2003 
  December 10, 1997 
      Joseph T. Kelliher 
      
    56 
      
    Executive Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs of NEE 
      
    May 18, 2009 
      John W. Ketchum 
      
    46 
      
    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of NEE 
  Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPL 
      
    March 4, 2016 
      Manoochehr K. Nazar 
      
    62 
      
    President Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of NEE 
  President Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of FPL 
      
    May 23, 2014 
  May 30, 2014 
      Armando Pimentel, Jr. 
      
    54 
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer of NEER 
      
    October 5, 2011 
      James L. Robo 
      
    54 
      
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of NEE 
  Chairman of FPL 
      
    December 13, 2013 
  May 2, 2012 
      Charles E. Sieving 
      
    44 
      
    Executive Vice President   General Counsel of NEE 
  Executive Vice President of FPL 
      
    December 1, 2008 
  January 1, 2009 
      Eric E. Silagy 
      
    51 
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer of FPL 
      
    May 30, 2014 
      William L. Yeager 
      
    58 
      
    Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction and Integrated Supply Chain of NEE  
  Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction and Integrated Supply Chain of FPL 
      
    January 1, 2013 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Information is as of   February 23, 2017  . Executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, their respective boards of directors. Except as noted below, each officer has held his/her present position for five years or more and his/her employment history is continuous. Mr. Arechabala was president of NextEra Energy Espa a, S.L., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NEE, from February 2010 to December 2013. Ms. Caplan was vice president and chief operating officer of FPL from May 2011 to April 2013. Mr. Crews served as NEE s Vice President, Finance from April 2016 to September 2016. From July 2015 to April 2016, he was a Partner in the national office of Deloitte   Touche LLP (Deloitte); from June 2013 to June 2015, he served as a professional accounting fellow in the Office of the Chief Accountant of the SEC; and from June 2010 to June 2013, he was an audit service senior manager at Deloitte. Mr. Ketchum served as NEE s Senior Vice President, Finance from February 2015 to March 2016, and Senior Vice President, Business Management and Finance from December 2013 to February 2015. From December 2012 to December 2013, he was Senior Vice President, Business Management of NEER and Vice President, General Counsel   Secretary of NEER from June 2009 to December 2012. Mr. Nazar has been chief nuclear officer of NEE and FPL since January 2010 and was executive vice president, nuclear division of NEE and FPL from January 2010 to May 2014. Mr. Robo has been president and chief executive officer of NEE since July 2012. Mr. Robo was the chief executive officer of FPL from May 2012 to May 2014 and president and chief operating officer of NEE from December 2006 to June 2012. Mr. Silagy has been president of FPL since December 2011. Mr. Yeager was vice president, engineering, construction and integrated supply chain services of NEE and FPL from October 2012 to December 2012 and vice president, integrated supply chain of NEE and FPL from May 2011 to October 2012. 
     
   21 

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
    
  Risks Relating to NEE's and FPL's Business 
    
  The business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of NEE and FPL. These risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL and may cause actual results of NEE and FPL to differ substantially from those that NEE or FPL currently expects or seeks. In that event, the market price for the securities of NEE or FPL could decline. Accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that NEE and FPL file with the SEC.  
    
  Regulatory, Legislative and Legal Risks 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. 
    
  The operations of NEE and FPL are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, NEE's and FPL's industries, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation and licensing of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. In their business planning and in the management of their operations, NEE and FPL must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. 
    
  FPL is an electric utility subject to the jurisdiction of the FPSC over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery by FPL of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that FPL is permitted to earn on invested capital. The regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in Florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact FPL's earnings. The regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that FPL will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. Certain other subsidiaries of NEE are transmission utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. 
    
  Regulatory decisions that are important to NEE and FPL may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. 
    
  The local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on FPSC decisions with negative consequences for FPL. These decisions may require, for example, FPL to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. Certain other subsidiaries of NEE are subject to similar risks. 
    
  FPL's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the FPSC. 
    
  The FPSC engages in an annual prudence review of FPL's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the FPSC could deny cost recovery for such use by FPL. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, RPS, feed-in tariffs or the Clean Power Plan, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, NEER abandoning  
  
   22 

     Table of Contents  

the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of NEER's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEER depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which NEER operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. The federal government, a majority of the 50 U.S. states and portions of Canada and Spain provide incentives, such as tax incentives, RPS, feed-in tariffs or the Clean Power Plan, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. As a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. Any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, NEER abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of NEER's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or other regulatory initiatives. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations, interpretations and other regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. Changes in the nature of the regulation of NEE's and FPL's business could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on NEE and FPL, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  FPL has limited competition in the Florida market for retail electricity customers. Any changes in Florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the Florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost or that are otherwise subsidized by non-participants, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be no assurance that FPL will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEER is subject to FERC rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. NEE cannot predict the impact of changing FERC rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond NEE's control. There can be no assurance that NEER will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE s and FPL s OTC financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and similar international regulations that are designed to promote transparency, mitigate systemic risk and protect against market abuse. NEE and FPL cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully implemented final rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on OTC derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities.  
    
  NEE and FPL are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require NEE and FPL to limit or eliminate certain operations. 
    
  NEE and FPL are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, CO   2   , waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and RPS, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. 

23 

     Table of Contents  

There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental regulations. For example, among other new, potential or pending changes are federal regulation of CO   2    emissions under the Clean Power Plan and state and federal regulation of the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar technologies to drill for natural gas and related compounds used by NEE's gas infrastructure business. 
    
  Violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose NEE and FPL to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. Proceedings could include, for example, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements such as air, water and soil quality standards. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. 
    
  Federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, CO   2    and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. Although it is currently subject to a stay issued by the U.S. Supreme Court, the Clean Power Plan is an example of such a new regulation at the federal level. The potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on NEE's and FPL's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. 
    
  While NEE's and FPL's electric generation units emit greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the U.S. electric generation sector, the results of operations of NEE and FPL could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. Any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: 

create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances; 
                
    make some of NEE's and FPL's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; 
                
    require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or 
                
    affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. 
       
  There can be no assurance that NEE or FPL would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of NEE and FPL exposes NEE and FPL to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. Additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. As an example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, NEE and FPL, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject NEE and FPL to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If FPL or NEE is found not to be in compliance with these standards, it may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. Both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. Amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the financial condition and results of operations of NEE and FPL, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. These factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
  
   24 

     Table of Contents  

NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. Unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings in which NEE is involved or other future legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, class action lawsuits, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. 
    
  Operational Risks 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if NEE and FPL do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, Native American and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. If any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and NEE and FPL could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE and FPL may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. 
    
  NEE and FPL own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. A key component of NEE's and FPL's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. As part of these operations, NEE and FPL must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. Should NEE or FPL be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on NEE or FPL, NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. 
    
  The operation and maintenance of NEE's and FPL's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. Operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. 
    
  Uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining NEE's and FPL's facilities include, but are not limited to: 

risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; 
                
    failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; 
                
    the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; 
                
    performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; 
                
    breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines; 
                
    availability of replacement equipment; 
     
   25 

     Table of Contents  

risks of property damage or human injury from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events; 
                
    availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; 
                
    inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in NEE's and FPL's facilities; 
                
    use of new or unproven technology; 
                
    risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources;  
                
    increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and 
                
    insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. 
       
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. 
    
  Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of NEE and FPL, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. A lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause NEE and FPL to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. 
    
  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require NEE and FPL to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. Furthermore, NEE's and FPL's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to FPL, a change in sea level. FPL operates in the east and lower west coasts of Florida, an area that historically has been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent NEE and FPL from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  At FPL and other businesses of NEE where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, NEER's wind and solar facilities. For example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. Because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, NEER's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and NEE's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. 
    
  Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt NEE's and FPL's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE and FPL are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. There have been cyber attacks on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. NEE's and FPL's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. 
    
  Terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar events affecting NEE's and FPL's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which NEE and FPL rely, could harm NEE's and FPL's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process  
  
   26 

     Table of Contents  

payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair NEE's and FPL's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. Such events or actions may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  The ability of NEE and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. NEE's and FPL's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. 
    
  Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to NEE and FPL. The ability of NEE and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. If insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, NEE or FPL may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. NEE and FPL generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. For example, FPL is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but would instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the FPSC, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. A loss for which NEE or FPL is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through NEER s gas infrastructure business. The gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. A prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact NEER s gas infrastructure business and cause NEER to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and for certain existing projects to be impaired, which could materially adversely affect NEE's results of operations. 
    
  Natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. Factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. There can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. For example, in a low gas and oil price environment, NEER would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in oil and gas production and transmission projects to be delayed or cancelled or to experience lower returns, and for certain projects to become impaired, which could materially adversely affect NEE's results of operations. 
    
  If supply costs necessary to provide NEER's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEER provides full energy and capacity requirements     services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. The supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. NEER may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, NEER's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. NEE's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors both from within, or wholly or partially outside of, NEE's control, may materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

27 

     Table of Contents  

Reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of NEE to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect NEE's results of operations. 
    
  NEE is an active participant in energy markets. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in NEE's ability to manage risks in these operations. Market liquidity is driven in part by the number of active market participants, which has declined in recent years as some banks and other financial institutions have withdrawn from power marketing. Liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. 
    
  NEE and FPL have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. NEE and FPL are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. If such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  If price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, NEE's and FPL's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, NEE and FPL are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.  
    
  If power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, FPL's and NEER's ability to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. 
    
  FPL and NEER depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. Occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond FPL's and NEER's control (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt the ability of FPL and NEER to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE and FPL are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. 
    
  NEE and FPL are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. Adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with NEE and FPL. For example, the prolonged downturn in oil and natural gas prices has adversely affected the financial stability of a number of enterprises in the energy industry, including some with which NEE does business. 
    
  If any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, NEE and FPL may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. If a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, NEE and FPL may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. 
    
  NEE and FPL could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if NEE or FPL is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. 
    
  NEE and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the OTC markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for NEE to engage in trading and marketing activities. Any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on NEE's or FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similarly, any requirement for FPL or NEE to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. These risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industries in which NEE participates. 

28 

     Table of Contents  

NEE and FPL are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE and FPL operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite NEE's and FPL's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. If NEE's or FPL's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and NEE and FPL could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. Due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of NEE's and FPL's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. NEE's and FPL's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather or terrorist activities. Any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE and FPL add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. Modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. Any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. 
    
  NEE and FPL also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. If a significant breach occurred, the reputation of NEE and FPL could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. NEE and FPL would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or NEE and FPL could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. 
    
  NEE and FPL could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in OTC markets. 
    
  NEE and FPL execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the OTC markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. Transactions executed in OTC markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. As a result, NEE and FPL may not be able to execute desired OTC transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. 
    
  In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE and FPL may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. 
    
  From time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting NEE and FPL. Adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from NEE's and FPL's business. 
    
  Addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of NEE and FPL,  
  
   29 

     Table of Contents  

on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators. It may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. The direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected if FPL is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in Florida. 
    
  FPL must negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in Florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of FPL's revenues. If FPL is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and FPL may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. 
    
  Employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. Personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry. 
    
  NEE is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry in general. In addition, NEE may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. 
    
  NEP s acquisitions may not be completed and, even if completed, NEE may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect NEE s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Texas pipeline business. Although NEP has made a number of acquisitions of wind and solar generation projects, the Texas pipeline business is the first third party acquisition by NEP and is NEP s first acquisition of natural gas pipeline assets. 
    
  In the future NEP may make additional acquisitions of assets which are inherently risky and NEE may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect NEE s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Nuclear Generation Risks 
    
  The operation and maintenance of NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. NEE and FPL maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in NEE's and FPL's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. If NEE or FPL is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of FPL, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 
    
  In the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the U.S. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in Europe, NEE and FPL could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. 
    
  Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In accordance with this Act, NEE maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. Under the secondary  
  
   30 

     Table of Contents  

financial protection system, NEE is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in Europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. Such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NRC orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require NEE and FPL to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. 
    
  The NRC has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any of the foregoing events could require NEE and FPL to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. 
    
  Any serious nuclear incident occurring at a NEE or FPL plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. An incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. 
    
  The inability to operate any of NEE's or FPL's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  The operating licenses for NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities extend through at least 2030. If the facilities cannot be operated for any reason through the life of those operating licenses, NEE or FPL may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. If planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, NEE's and FPL's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. In the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect NEE's or FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Liquidity, Capital Requirements and Common Stock Risks 
    
  Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect NEE's and FPL's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of NEE and FPL. 
    
  NEE and FPL rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets could increase NEE's and FPL's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives. If NEE or FPL is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Although NEE's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect     the future availability of such financing. The inability of NEE's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, NEECH and NEP and their respective subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by NEE and/or NEECH in the future. 
    
  The inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders  
  
   31 

     Table of Contents  

would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. Such an occurrence also could result in NEE expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. Any of these actions could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for NEE or its subsidiaries. 
    
  NEE's, NEECH's and FPL's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of NEE and FPL to grow their business, and increase interest costs. 
    
  The inability of NEE, NEECH and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact NEE's and FPL's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. In addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. Some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, NEE's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. There can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of NEE, NEECH and FPL will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. 
    
  The inability of NEE's, NEECH's and FPL's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require NEE, NEECH or FPL, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's liquidity. 
    
  Poor market performance and other economic factors could affect NEE's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. 
    
  NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. A decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. 
    
  NEE's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since, as interest rates decrease the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. Any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. 
    
  Poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of NEE's and FPL's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  NEE and FPL are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. Any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Certain of NEE's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect NEE's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  NEE holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect NEE's financial results. In some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. This type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. A sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on NEE's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  NEE may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to NEE. 
    
  NEE is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. Substantially all of NEE's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. NEE's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to NEE. 
    
  NEE's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide NEE with funds for its payment obligations. The subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy  
  
   32 

     Table of Contents  

before they can provide NEE with funds. In addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, NEE's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. 
    
  The dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. The future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of NEE's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. 
    
  NEE may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if NEE is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. 
    
  NEE guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than FPL, through guarantee agreements with NEECH. These guarantees may require NEE to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when NEE is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. Funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect NEE's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. 
    
  NEP may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of NEE s limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. 
    
  NEE understands that NEP expects to finance acquisitions of clean energy projects partially or wholly through the issuance of additional common units. NEP needs to be able to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. NEP's ability to access the equity capital markets is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investment in clean energy projects in general and NEP's common units in particular. An inability to obtain equity financing on commercially reasonable terms could limit NEP's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy in the manner currently contemplated. Furthermore there may not be sufficient availability under NEP OpCo's subsidiaries' revolving credit facility or other financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms when acquisition opportunities arise. If debt financing is available, it may be available only on terms that could significantly increase NEP's interest expense, impose additional or more restrictive covenants and reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. An inability to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms could significantly limit NEP's ability to consummate future acquisitions and to effectuate its growth strategy. NEP's inability to effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its business and make cash distributions to its unitholders. 
    
  Through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, NEE owns a limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. NEP's inability to access the capital markets on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its cash distributions to its unitholders, including NEE, and on the value of NEE s limited partnership interest in NEP OpCo. 
    
  Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of NEE's common stock. 
    
  The market price and trading volume of NEE's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of NEE and its subsidiaries. As a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of NEE's common stock. 

33 

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments 
    
  None 

Item 2.  Properties 
    
  For a description of NEE's principal properties, see Item 1. Business - FPL and Item 1. Business - NEER. 
    
  Character of Ownership 
    
  Substantially all of FPL's properties are subject to the lien of FPL's mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by FPL. The majority of FPL's real property is held in fee and is free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions which are not of a nature as to substantially impair the usefulness to FPL of such properties. Some of FPL's electric lines are located on parcels of land which are not owned in fee by FPL but are covered by necessary consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained from owners of private property. The majority of NEER's generation facilities, pipeline facilities and transmission assets are owned by NEER subsidiaries and a number of those facilities and assets, including all of the Texas pipelines, are encumbered by liens securing various financings. Additionally, the majority of NEER's generation facilities, pipeline facilities and transmission lines are located on land leased or under easement from owners of private property. See Note 1 - Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization. 

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
    
  None 

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures 
    
  Not applicable 

34 

Table of Contents  

PART II 

Item 5.  Market for Registrants' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  Common Stock Data.     All of FPL's common stock is owned by NEE. NEE's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "NEE." The high and low sales prices for the common stock of NEE as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange and the cash dividends per share declared for each quarter during the past two years are as follows: 

The amount and timing of dividends payable on NEE's common stock are within the sole discretion of NEE's Board of Directors. The Board of Directors reviews the dividend rate at least annually (generally in February) to determine its appropriateness in light of NEE's financial position and results of operations, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry in general and FPL in particular, competitive conditions, change in business mix and any other factors the Board of Directors deems relevant. The ability of NEE to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. There are no restrictions in effect that currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to NEE. In February 2017, NEE announced that it would increase its quarterly dividend on its common stock from $0.87 per share to $0.9825 per share. See Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Covenants with respect to dividend restrictions and Note 10 - Common Stock Dividend Restrictions regarding dividends paid by FPL to NEE. 
    
  As of the close of business on January 31, 2017, there were 19,737 holders of record of NEE's common stock. 
    
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   Information regarding purchases made by NEE of its common stock during the three months ended   December 31, 2016   is as follows: 

______________________ 
    
           (a) 
    Includes: (1) in November 2016, shares of common stock withheld from employees to pay certain withholding taxes upon the vesting of stock awards granted to such employees under the NextEra Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan; and (2) in December 2016, shares of common stock purchased as a reinvestment of dividends by the trustee of a grantor trust in connection with NEE's obligation under a February 2006 grant under the NextEra Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (former LTIP) to an executive officer of deferred retirement share awards. 
              (b) 
    In February 2005, NEE's Board of Directors authorized common stock repurchases of up to 20 million shares of common stock over an unspecified period, which authorization was most recently reaffirmed and ratified by the Board of Directors in July 2011. 

35 

Table of Contents  

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data   

  ______________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes net unrealized mark-to-market after-tax gains (losses) associated with non-qualifying hedges of approximately   $(92) million  ,   $183 million  ,   $153 million  , $(53) million and $(34) million, respectively. Also, on an after-tax basis, 2013 includes impairment and other charges of approximately $342 million related to solar projects in Spain. 
              (b) 
    2013 includes an after-tax gain from discontinued operations of $231 million related to the sale of hydropower generation plants. 

36 

Table of Contents  

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

OVERVIEW 
    
  NEE s operating performance is driven primarily by the operations of its two principal subsidiaries, FPL, which serves approximately   4.9 million   customer accounts in Florida and is one of the largest rate-regulated electric utilities in the U.S., and NEER, which together with affiliated entities is the largest generator in the world     of renewable energy from the wind and sun based on MWh produced in 2016. The table below presents net income     (loss) attributable to NEE and earnings (loss) per share attributable to NEE, assuming dilution, by reportable segment, FPL and NEER, and by     Corporate and Other, which is primarily comprised of the operating results of NEET, FPL FiberNet and other business activities, as well as other income and expense items, including interest expense, income taxes and eliminating entries (  see Note   14     for additional segment information). The following discussions should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein and all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. 
   
 ______________________ 
           (a) 
    NEER s results reflect an allocation of interest expense from NEECH based on a deemed capital structure of 70% debt. 
       
  For the five years ended   December 31, 2016  , NEE delivered a total shareholder return of approximately 130.3%, above the S P 500 s 98.2% return, the S P 500 Utilities' 63.7% return and the Dow Jones U.S. Electricity's 59.8% return. The historical stock performance of NEE's common stock shown in the performance graph below is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 

37 

     Table of Contents  

Adjusted Earnings 
    
  NEE prepares its financial statements under GAAP. However, management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings), a non-GAAP financial measure, internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and as an input in determining performance-based compensation under NEE s employee incentive compensation plans. NEE also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its financial results and earnings outlook to analysts and investors.     NEE   s management believes adjusted earnings provides a more meaningful representation of NEE's fundamental earnings power. Although the excluded amounts are properly included in the determination of net income under GAAP, management believes that the amount and/or nature of such items make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. Adjusted earnings do not represent a substitute for net income, as prepared under GAAP. 
    
  Adjusted earnings exclude the unrealized mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges (as described below) and OTTI losses on securities held in NEER s nuclear decommissioning funds, net of the reversal of previously recognized OTTI losses on securities sold and losses on securities where price recovery was deemed unlikely (collectively, OTTI reversals). However, other adjustments may be made from time to time with the intent to provide more meaningful and comparable results of ongoing operations. 
    
  NEE segregates into two categories unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on derivative transactions. The first category, referred to as non-qualifying hedges, represents certain energy derivative, interest rate derivative and foreign currency transactions entered into as economic hedges, which do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting, or for which hedge accounting treatment is not elected or has been discontinued. Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the consolidated statements of income, resulting in earnings volatility because the economic offset to certain of the positions are generally not marked to market. As a consequence, NEE's net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically-linked transactions. For example, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category for certain energy derivatives is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under GAAP. For this reason, NEE's management views results expressed excluding the unrealized mark-to-market impact of the non-qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. The second category, referred to as trading activities, which is included in adjusted earnings, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of expected market price movements and all other commodity hedging activities. In January 2016, NEE discontinued hedge accounting for all of its remaining interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments, which could result in increased volatility in the non-qualifying hedge category. In connection with discontinuing hedge accounting for all of its remaining interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments, in May 2016, NEE also began recording changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives entered into as economic hedges to offset expected future debt issuances as non-qualifying hedges. At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause. See Note     3. 
    
  During 2014, NEER decided not to pursue the sale of NEER's ownership interests in oil-fired generation plants located in Maine (Maine fossil) and recorded an after-tax gain of $12 million to increase Maine fossil's carrying value to its estimated fair value. See Note 4 - Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements. In 2016, subsidiaries of NEER completed the sales of their ownership interests in certain natural gas generation facilities. In connection with the sales and the related consolidating state income tax effects, gains totaling approximately $445 million ($219 million after tax) were recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income and are included in losses (gains) on disposal of assets - net. See Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale. In order to make period to period comparisons more meaningful,   adjusted earnings also exc  lude the items discussed above, as well as costs incurred in 2016 and 2015 associated with the terminated HEI merger agreement (see Note 1 - Merger Termination), costs incurred in 2016 associated with the EFH merger agreement and related transactions (see Note 7 - Pending Oncor-Related Transactions), the resolution of contingencies related to a previous asset sale, the pretax amount of which totaled $9 million and was recorded in 2016 as gains on disposal of investments and other property - net in NEE's consolidated statements of income, and, for all periods, the operating results associated with the solar projects in Spain. 

38 

     Table of Contents  

The following table provides details of the after-tax adjustments to net income considered in computing NEE's adjusted earnings discussed above. 
                                           
    Years Ended December 31, 
        
    2016 
      
    2015 
      
    2014 

(millions) 

Net unrealized mark-to-market gains (losses) from non-qualifying hedge activity   (a)  
    $ 
    (92 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    183 

$ 
    153 
      
      Merger-related expenses - Corporate and Other 
    $ 
    (92 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (20 
    ) 
      
    $ 

Operating results of solar projects in Spain - NEER 
    $ 
    (11 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    5 

$ 
    (32 
    ) 
      Losses from OTTI on securities held in NEER's nuclear decommissioning funds, net of OTTI reversals   (b)  
    $ 
    (1 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (15 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (2 
    ) 
      Gain associated with Maine fossil - NEER 
    $ 

$ 

$ 
    12 
      
      Gains on sale of natural gas generation facilities   (c)  
    $ 
    219 

$ 

$ 

Resolution of contingencies related to a previous asset sale - NEER 
    $ 
    5 

$ 

$ 

______________________ 
            (b) 
    For   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , approximately $2 million of losses, $14 million of losses and $1 million of income, respectively, are included in NEER's net income; the balance is included in Corporate and Other. 
              (c) 
    Approximately $276 million of the gains is included in NEER's net income; the balance is included in Corporate and Other. See Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale and Note 5. 
       
  The change in unrealized mark-to-market activity from non-qualifying hedges is primarily attributable to changes in forward power and natural gas prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses as the underlying transactions were realized. 
    
  2016   Summary 
    
  Net income attributable to NEE for   2016   was higher than   2015   by   $160 million  , or   $0.19   per share, assuming dilution, due to higher results at FPL, NEER and Corporate and Other. 
    
  FPL's increase in net income in   2016   was primarily driven by continued investments in plant in service while earning an 11.50% regulatory ROE on its retail rate base.  
    
  NEER's results increased in   2016   primarily reflecting earnings from new investments, gains from the sales of natural gas generation facilities and fair value adjustments related to contingent consideration, partly offset by net unrealized losses from non-qualifying hedge activity compared to gains from such hedges in 2015, higher growth-related interest and general and administrative expenses and lower earnings on gas infrastructure and existing assets. In   2016  , NEER added approximately 1,465 MW of wind capacity and 980 MW of solar capacity in the U.S., completed the sales of its ownership interests in certain natural gas generation facilities with total generating capacity of 3,724 MW and increased its backlog of contracted renewable development projects.  
    
  Corporate and Other's results in   2016   increased primarily reflecting net unrealized gains from non-qualifying hedge activity primarily associated with interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments, partly offset by higher merger-related expenses and unfavorable consolidating income tax adjustments. 
    
  NEE and its subsidiaries require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are primarily provided by cash flow from operations, borrowings or issuances of short- and long-term debt and proceeds from differential membership investors and, from time to time, issuances of equity securities. See Liquidity and Capital Resources - Liquidity. 
    
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
    
  Net income attributable to NEE for     2016     was     $2.91 billion  , compared to     $2.75 billion     in     2015     and     $2.47 billion     in     2014  . In     2016     and     2015  , net income attributable to NEE improved due to higher results at   FPL, NEER and Corporate and Other. 
    
  NEE's effective income tax rates for 2016, 2015 and 2014 of approximately 31.5%, 30.8% and 32.3%, respectively, primarily reflect income tax expense at the statutory rate of 35% and state income taxes, partly offset by the benefit of PTCs for NEER's wind projects, as well as ITCs and deferred income tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs for solar and certain wind projects at NEER. PTCs, ITCs and deferred income tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs can significantly affect NEE's effective income tax rate depending on the amount of pretax income. The amount of PTCs recognized can be significantly affected by wind generation and by the roll off of PTCs on certain wind projects after ten years of production (PTC roll off). In addition, NEE's effective income tax rate for 2014 was unfavorably affected by a noncash income tax charge of approximately $45 million associated with structuring Canadian assets in connection with the creation of NEP. In April 2016, a court approved a reorganization of certain Canadian assets that provided for tax bases in certain of these assets. NEE recorded approximately $30 million of associated income tax adjustments in 2016, which effectively reversed a portion of the charge recorded in 2014. See Note 1 - Income Taxes and Note 5.  
  
   39 

     Table of Contents  

FPL: Results of Operations 
    
  FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the sale of electricity to retail customers at rates established by the FPSC through base rates and cost recovery clause mechanisms. FPL s net income for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was   $1,727 million  ,   $1,648 million   and   $1,517 million  , respectively, representing an increase in   2016   of   $79 million   and an increase in   2015   of   $131 million  . The primary drivers, on an after-tax basis, of these changes are in the following table. 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Investment in plant in service grew FPL's average retail rate base by approximately $2.4 billion and $1.0 billion in 2016 and 2015, respectively. For 2016, the increase primarily reflects the modernized Port Everglades Clean Energy Center that was placed in service in April 2016 and ongoing transmission and distribution additions. For 2015, the increase primarily reflects ongoing transmission and distribution additions and the modernized Riviera Beach Clean Energy Center placed in service in April 2014. 
       
  The use of reserve amortization was permitted under the 2012 rate agreement and continues during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. See Item 1. Business - FPL - FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation - Base Rates for additional information on the 2012 and 2016 rate agreements. In order to earn a targeted regulatory ROE, subject to limitations associated with the 2012 and 2016 rate agreements, reserve amortization is calculated using a trailing thirteen-month average of retail rate base and capital structure in conjunction with the trailing twelve months regulatory retail base net operating income, which primarily includes the retail base portion of base and other revenues, net of O M, depreciation and amortization, interest and tax expenses. In general, the net impact of these income statement line items must be adjusted, in part, by reserve amortization to earn a targeted regulatory ROE. In certain periods, reserve amortization is reversed so as not to exceed the targeted regulatory ROE. The drivers of FPL  '  s net income not reflected in the reserve amortization calculation typically include wholesale and transmission service revenues and expenses, cost recovery clause revenues and expenses, AFUDC - equity and costs not allowed to be recovered from retail customers by the FPSC. In   2016  ,   FPL recorded reserve amortization of   $13 million  , and, in     2015   and   2014  , FPL recorded the reversal of reserve amortization of approximately   $15 million   and   $33 million  , respectively. FPL's regulatory ROE for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was 11.50%.  
    
  FPL's operating revenues consisted of the following: 

40 

     Table of Contents  

Retail Base 
    
  FPSC Rate Orders  
  FPL s retail base revenues for all years presented reflect the 2012 rate agreement. Retail base revenues increased approximately $175 million in 2016 through a $216 million annualized retail base rate increase associated with the modernized Port Everglades Clean Energy Center which was placed in service in April 2016, and, in 2015, increased $43 million through a $234 million annualized retail base rate increase associated with the modernized Riviera Beach Clean Energy Center which was placed in service in April 2014.  
    
  In December 2016, the FPSC issued a final order approving the 2016 rate agreement which became effective January 2017 and will remain in effect until at least December 2020, establishes FPL's allowed regulatory ROE at 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%, and allows for retail rate base increases in 2017, 2018 and upon commencement of commercial operations at the Okeechobee Clean Energy Center. In January 2017, the Sierra Club filed a notice of appeal challenging the FPSC s final order approving the 2016 rate agreement, which notice of appeal is pending before the Florida Supreme Court. See Item 1. Business - FPL - FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation - Base Rates for additional information on the 2016 rate agreement. 
    
  Retail Customer Usage and Growth 
  In   2016   and   2015  , FPL experienced a 1.4% increase each year in the average number of customer accounts and a 2.1% decrease and 4.2% increase, respectively, in the average usage per retail customer, which collectively, together with other factors, decreased revenues by approximately $21 million and increased revenues by $263 million, respectively. The decline in 2016 usage per retail customer is primarily due to milder weather and customer service interruptions as a result of hurricanes that impacted FPL's service territory in 2016 which had a modest negative impact on 2016 base revenue (see Note 1 - Securitized Storm-Recovery Costs, Storm Fund and Storm Reserve), while the increase in 2015 usage per retail customer was due to favorable weather. An improvement in the Florida economy contributed to increased revenues in both periods. 
    
  Cost Recovery Clauses 
    
  Revenues from fuel and other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs, such as franchise fees, revenue taxes and storm-related surcharges, are largely a pass-through of costs. Such revenues also include a return on investment allowed to be recovered through the cost recovery clauses on certain assets, primarily related to certain solar and environmental projects and the unamortized balance of the regulatory asset associated with FPL's acquisition of the Cedar Bay generation facility. See Item 1. Business - FPL - FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation - Cost Recovery Clauses. Underrecovery or overrecovery of cost recovery clause and other pass-through costs (deferred clause and franchise expenses and revenues) can significantly affect NEE's and FPL's operating cash flows. The 2016 and 2015 net overrecoveries were approximately $94 million and $176 million, respectively, and positively affected NEE s and FPL s cash flows from operating activities. 
    
  The decrease in fuel cost recovery revenues in   2016   is primarily due to a decrease of approximately $737 million related to a lower average fuel factor. The slight decrease in fuel cost recovery revenues in   2015   reflects lower revenues totaling approximately $118 million from the incentive mechanism and from interchange power sales and $96 million related to a lower average fuel factor, partly offset by increased revenues of $213 million related to higher energy sales. 
    
  Declines in 2016 revenues from other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs were largely due to reductions in purchased power and capacity expenses associated with the capacity clause. The declines in 2015 revenues from other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs were largely due to reductions in expenses associated with energy conservation programs and the capacity clause.  
    
  In   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , cost recovery clauses contributed $112 million, $103 million and $93 million, respectively, to FPL s net income. The increase in 2016 primarily relates to the acquisition of the Cedar Bay generation facility. The increase in 2015 primarily relates to gains associated with the incentive mechanism, investments in gas reserves and the acquisition of the Cedar Bay generation facility. 
    
  In September 2015, FPL assumed ownership of the Cedar Bay generation facility and terminated its long-term purchased power agreement for substantially all of the facility s capacity and energy for a purchase price of approximately $521 million. FPL will recover the purchase price and associated income tax gross-up as a regulatory asset which will be amortized over approximately nine years. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation for further discussion. Additionally, in January 2017, FPL purchased the Indiantown generation facility (see Note 13 - Contracts). 
    
  Woodford Shale Investment 
  In March 2015, after receiving FPSC approval, a wholly owned subsidiary of FPL partnered with a third party to develop up to 38 natural gas production wells in the Woodford Shale region in southeastern Oklahoma and in return began receiving its ownership share of the natural gas produced from these wells. In May 2016, the Florida Supreme Court (Court) reversed the FPSC s order approving FPL s investment in the Woodford Shale wells concluding that the FPSC exceeded its statutory authority when approving recovery of FPL s costs and investment in these wells. During   2016  , FPL recorded a provision for refund of approximately $13 million (after tax) associated with the Court s decision. FPL s wholly owned subsidiary, which is not subject to FPSC authority, sells its share of the natural gas produced from the Woodford Shale wells to third parties at market prices. Also, in response to the Court's  
  
   41 

     Table of Contents  

decision on the Woodford Shale order, the FPSC vacated its July 2015 order approving a set of guidelines under which FPL could participate in additional natural gas production projects. 
    
  Other 
    
  The increase in other revenues for 2016 is primarily due to revenues related to sales of natural gas produced from the Woodford Shale wells discussed above. The increase in other revenues for 2015, which did not result in a significant contribution to earnings, primarily reflects higher wholesale and transmission service revenues along with other miscellaneous service revenues.  
    
  Other Items Impacting FPL's Consolidated Statements of Income 
    
  Fuel, Purchased Power and Interchange Expense 
  The major components of FPL's fuel, purchased power and interchange expense are as follows: 

The decrease in fuel and energy charges in 2016 primarily reflects approximately $453 million of lower fuel and energy prices and $27 million related to lower energy sales. The decrease in fuel and energy charges in   2015   was due to lower fuel and energy prices of approximately $491 million and a decrease of $68 million in costs related to the incentive mechanism, partly offset by higher energy sales of approximately $201 million. In addition, FPL deferred approximately $11 million and $109 million of retail fuel costs in 2016 and 2014, respectively, compared to the recognition of deferred retail fuel costs of $220 million in 2015. The decrease in other in both periods is primarily due to lower capacity fees in part related to the termination of the Cedar Bay generation facility long-term purchased power agreement after FPL assumed ownership of the Cedar Bay generation facility in September 2015. 
    
  Depreciation and Amortization Expense 
  The major components of FPL s depreciation and amortization expense are as follows: 

The reserve amortization, or reversal of such amortization, reflects adjustments to the depreciation and fossil dismantlement reserve provided under the 2012 rate agreement in order to achieve the targeted regulatory ROE. Reserve amortization is recorded as a reduction to (or when reversed as an increase to) accrued asset removal costs which is reflected in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation regarding a $30 million reduction in the reserve available for amortization under the 2012 rate agreement. Subject to certain conditions, FPL may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to $1.0 billion of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount remaining under FPL's 2012 rate agreement (approximately $250 million at December 31, 2016). 
    
  The increase in other depreciation and amortization expense recovered under base rates in 2016 primarily relates to higher plant in service balances, including investments in transmission and distribution assets and the modernized Port Everglades Clean Energy Center that was placed in service in April 2016, partly offset by the absence of 2015 amortization expenses associated with analog meters. The increase in other depreciation and amortization expense recovered under base rates in 2015 is due to higher amortization expenses primarily associated with analog meters and higher plant in service balances. The increase in depreciation and amortization primarily recovered under cost recovery clauses and securitized storm-recovery cost amortization in 2016 primarily relates to amortization of a regulatory asset associated with the September 2015 acquisition of the Cedar Bay generation facility.  

42 

     Table of Contents  

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes and Other 
  Taxe  s other than income taxes and other decreased   $16 million   in     2016     primarily due to lower franchise and revenue taxes, neither of which impacts net income, partly offset by higher   property taxes reflecting growth in plant in service balances. The     increase in 2015 of   $39 million   was primarily due to     higher property taxes reflecting growth in plant in service balances.  
    
  Interest Expense 
  The increase in interest expense in   2016   and 2015 primarily reflects higher average debt balances, partly offset by lower average interest rates.   Interest expense on storm-recovery bonds, as well as certain other interest expense on clause-recoverable investments (collectively, clause interest), do not significantly affect net income, as the clause interest is recovered either under cost recovery clause mechanisms or through a storm-recovery bond surcharge. Clause interest for     2016  ,     2015     and     2014     amounted to approximately $41 million, $41 million and $42 million, respective  ly. 
    
  AFUDC - Equity 
  The increase in AFUDC - equity in     2016     is primarily due to additional AFUDC - equity recorded on construction expenditures associated with the replacement of certain gas turbines with high efficiency, low-emission turbines (  peaker upgrade project) and a solar PV project constructed on three sites  , partly offset by lower AFUDC - equity associated with the Port Everglades     Clean Energy Center     which was placed in service in April 2016. The increase in AFUDC - equity in     2015     is primarily due to additional AFUDC - equity recorded on construction expenditures associated with the modernization project at the Port Everglades     Clean Energy Center  , the     investments in new compressor parts technology at select combined-cycle units and the peaker upgrade project  , partly offset by lower AFUDC - equity associated with the modernized Riviera Beach Clean Energy Center which was placed in service in April 2014.    
    
  Capital Initiatives 
  FPL plans to add approximately 1,750 MW of capacity in mid-2019 when the Okeechobee Clean Energy Center is expected to be placed in service, to add up to 300 MW annually in each of 2017 through 2020 of new solar generation and to continue to strengthen its transmission and distribution infrastructure. 
    
  NEER: Results of Operations 
    
  NEER owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the U.S. and Canada. NEER also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities and invests in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure assets.   NEER s net income less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for     2016  ,     2015     and     2014     was     $1,125 million  ,     $1,092 million     and     $989 million  , respectively, resulting in an   increase     in     2016     of     $33 million     and an increase in     2015     of     $103 million  . The primary drivers, on an after-tax basis, of these changes are in the following table.    
                                   
    Increase (Decrease) 
  From Prior Period 
        
    Years Ended    December 31, 
        
    2016 
      
    2015 
        
    (millions) 
      New investments   (a)  
    $ 
    293 

$ 
    138 
      
      Existing assets   (a)  
    (55 
    ) 
      
    (29 
    ) 
      Gas infrastructure   (b)  
    (75 
    ) 
      
    (7 
    ) 
      Customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading   (b)  
    (16 
    ) 
      
    110 
      
      Revaluation of contingent consideration 
    80 

Interest and other general and administrative expenses   (c)  
    (99 
    ) 
      
    (99 
    ) 
      Other 
    36 

(24 
    ) 
      Change in unrealized mark-to-market non-qualifying hedge activity   (d)  
    (408 
    ) 
      
    4 
      
      Change in OTTI losses on securities held in nuclear decommissioning funds, net of OTTI reversals   (d)  
    12 

(15 
    ) 
      Maine fossil gain in 2014   (d)  

(12 
    ) 
      Operating results of the solar projects in Spain   (d)  
    (16 
    ) 
      
    37 
      
      Gains on sale of natural gas generation facilities   (d)  
    276 

Resolution of contingencies related to a previous asset sale   (d)  
    5 

Increase in net income less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
    $ 
    33 

$ 
    103 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes PTCs, ITCs and deferred income tax and other benefits associated with convertible ITCs for wind and solar projects, as applicable, (see Note 1 - Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization, - Income Taxes and - Sale of Differential Membership Interests and Note 5), as well as income tax benefits related to the Canadian tax restructuring, but excludes allocation of interest expense or corporate general and administrative expenses. Results from projects are included in new investments during the first twelve months of operation or ownership. Project results are included in existing assets beginning with the thirteenth month of operation.  
              (b) 
    Excludes allocation of interest expense and corporate general and administrative expenses. 
              (c) 
    Includes differential membership interest costs. 
              (d) 
    See Overview - Adjusted Earnings for additional information. 
     
   43 

     Table of Contents  

New Investments 
    
  In   2016  , results from new investments increased due to: 

higher earnings of approximately $223 million, including deferred income tax and other benefits associated with ITCs and convertible ITCs, related to the addition of approximately 2,819 MW of wind generation and 1,226 MW of solar generation during or after   2015  , and 
                
    higher earnings of approximately $70 million related to the acquisition of the Texas pipelines in October 2015 and additional investments in other natural gas pipeline projects. 
       
  In   2015  , results from new investments increased primarily due to: 

higher earnings of approximately $146 million related to the addition of approximately 2,571 MW of wind generation and 910 MW of solar generation during or after   2014  , and 
                
    higher earnings of approximately $16 million related to the acquisition of the Texas pipelines and the development of three additional natural gas pipelines, 
     partly offset by,  
             
    lower deferred income tax and other benefits associated with convertible ITCs of $21 million and ITCs of $3 million. 
       
  Existing Assets 
    
  In   2016  , results from NEER's existing asset portfolio decreased primarily due to: 

lower results from wind and solar assets of approximately $40 million primarily due to lower state tax credits, PTC roll off, higher project O M expenses and an increase in the amount of earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest, offset in part by higher wind generation and income tax benefits related to the Canadian tax restructuring, and 
                
    lower results of $6 million related to the sale of certain natural gas generation facilities (see Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale). 
       
  In   2015  , results from NEER's existing asset portfolio decreased primarily due to: 

lower results from wind assets of $122 million primarily due to weaker wind resource offset in part by a favorable ITC impact related to changes in state income tax laws and favorable pricing, 
     partly offset by, 
             
    the absence of a $45 million non cash income tax charge associated with structuring Canadian assets and $22 million in NEP IPO transaction costs recorded in 2014, and 
                
    higher results from merchant assets in the ERCOT region of approximately $27 million primarily due to the absence of a 2014 outage. 
       
  Gas Infrastructure 
    
  The decrease in gas infrastructure results in 2016 is primarily due to increased depreciation expense reflecting higher depletion rates as well as lower commodity prices. The decrease in gas infrastructure results in   2015   reflects increased depreciation expense mainly related to both higher depletion rates and increased production in 2015, as well as the absence of 2014 gains on the sale of investments in certain wells (collectively, approximately $46 million), partly offset by gains of $42 million related to exiting the hedged positions on a number of future gas production opportunities; such gains were previously reflected in unrealized mark-to-market non-qualifying hedge activity. NEER continues to monitor its oil and gas producing properties for potential impairments due to low prices for oil and natural gas commodity products. However, an impairment analysis performed under GAAP does not take into consideration the mark-to-market value of hedged positions. NEER hedges the expected output from its oil and gas producing properties for a period of time to help protect against price movements; the fair value of such hedged positions at December 31, 2016 was approximately $144 million. At December 31, 2016, approximately $2.2 billion of NEE s property, plant and equipment, net relates to the gas infrastructure business' ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations. 
    
  Customer Supply and Proprietary Power and Gas Trading 
    
  Results from customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading decreased in   2016   primarily due to lower margins and less favorable market conditions compared to 2015. Results from customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading increased in 2015 primarily due to improved margins and favorable market conditions compared to lower results in the full requirements business in 2014 due to the impact of extreme winter weather. 
    
  Revaluation of Contingent Consideration 
    
  For 2016, NEER's results reflect approximately $80 million of after-tax fair value adjustments, net of amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, to reduce the contingent holdback associated with the acquisition of the Texas pipelines (see Note 7 - Texas Pipeline Business). 
  
   44 

     Table of Contents  

Interest and General and Administrative Expenses 
    
  Interest and general and administrative expenses includes interest expense, differential membership costs and other corporate general and administrative expenses. In   2016   and   2015  , interest and general and administrative expenses reflect higher borrowing and other costs to support the growth of the business.  
    
  Other Factors 
    
  Supplemental to the primary drivers of the changes in NEER's net income less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests discussed above, the discussion below describes changes in certain line items set forth in NEE's consolidated statements of income as they relate to NEER. 
    
  Operating Revenues 
  Operating revenues for   2016   decreased   $551 million   primarily due to: 

lower revenues from existing assets of $409 million reflecting lower revenues from the natural gas generation facilities sold in 2016, offset in part by higher wind generation due to stronger wind resource and higher revenues at Seabrook reflecting the absence of a 2015 refueling outage, 
     partly offset by, 
             
    higher revenues from new investments of approximately $384 million. 
       
  Operating revenues for   2015   increased   $248 million   primarily due to: 

higher revenues from new investments of approximately $225 million,  
                
    higher revenues from the customer supply business and proprietary power and gas trading business of $218 million reflecting favorable market conditions, and 
                
    higher revenues from the gas infrastructure business of $96 million primarily reflecting gains recorded upon exiting the hedged positions on a number of future gas production opportunities and the acquisition of the Texas pipelines, 
     partly offset by, 
              
    lower revenues from existing assets of $195 million reflecting lower wind generation due to weaker wind resource, lower revenues at the natural gas generation facility in Pennsylvania and in the ERCOT region due to lower gas prices and lower revenues at Seabrook reflecting a refueling outage, offset in part by higher revenues at Point Beach due to the absence of a 2014 outage and price escalation under the power sales agreement, higher dispatch in Maine due to 2015 weather conditions and higher revenues from the solar projects in Spain. 
       
  Operating Expenses - net 
  Operating expenses - net for   2016   decreased   $446 million   primarily due to: 

gains of approximately $446 million primarily related to the sale of natural gas generation facilities in 2016 and the profit sharing liability amortization related to ownership interests sold to NEP, and 
                
    lower fuel expense of approximately $284 million primarily reflecting lower fuel expense from the natural gas generation facilities sold in 2016  , 
     partly offset by, 
             
    higher operating expenses associated with new investments of approximately $208 million, 
                
    higher O M expenses reflecting higher costs associated with growth in the NEER business, and 
                
    higher depreciation of $49 million on existing assets primarily reflecting an increase of $111 million of depreciation from the gas infrastructure business primarily related to higher depletion rates and increased production, partly offset by lower depreciation on the natural gas generation facilities sold in 2016. 
       
  Operating expenses - net for   2015   increased   $138 million   primarily due to: 

higher operating expenses associated with new investments of approximately $123 million, 
                
    higher O M expenses reflecting higher costs associated with growth in the NEER business, higher taxes other than income taxes and other reflecting the absence of 2014 gains on the sale of investments in certain wells in the gas infrastructure business and the absence of the 2014 reimbursement by a vendor of certain O M-related costs, and 
                
    higher depreciation associated with the gas infrastructure business of $50 million primarily related to higher depletion rates and increased production,  
     partly offset by, 
             
    lower fuel expense of approximately $146 million primarily in the ERCOT region and at the natural gas generation facility in Pennsylvania. 
     
   45 

     Table of Contents  

Interest Expense 
  NEER s interest expense for   2016   increased $107 million reflecting approximately $45 million of unfavorable changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments compared to $11 million of favorable changes in 2015 and higher average debt balances reflecting growth in the business. Interest expense decreased $42 million in 2015 primarily reflecting the absence of approximately $64 million of losses in 2014 related to changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments, partly offset by higher average debt balances. 
    
  Benefits Associated with Differential Membership Interests - net 
  Benefits associated with differential membership interests - net for all periods presented reflect benefits recognized by NEER as third-party investors received their portion of the economic attributes, including income tax attributes, of the underlying wind and solar projects, net of associated costs. The increase for 2016 primarily relates to lower interest costs associated with the ongoing paydown of the differential membership interest obligations, sales of differential membership interests and increased results of the underlying wind and solar projects. See Note 1 - Sale of Differential Membership Interests. 
    
  Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees 
  Equity in earnings of equity method investees increased in 2016 primarily due to increased earnings from AFUDC on NEER's investments in natural gas pipeline projects as construction continues and earnings from NEER's investment in a wind project that was placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2015. In 2015, the increase was primarily due to NEER's 50% equity investment in a 550 MW solar project that commenced partial operations at the end of 2013 and full operations by the end of 2014. 
    
  Gains on Disposal of Investments and Other Property - net 
  Gains on disposal of investments and other property - net for all periods presented primarily reflect gains on sales of securities held in NEER s nuclear decommissioning funds. Gains on disposal of investments and other property - net also reflect in 2015, a pretax     gain of approximately $6 million on the sale of a 41 MW wind project and,   in 2014, a pretax gain of approximately $23 million on the sale of a 75 MW wind project. 
    
  Revaluation of Contingent Consideration 
  Revaluation of contingent consideration reflects fair value adjustments to reduce the contingent holdback associated with the acquisition of the Texas pipelines. Approximately $65 million of the fair value adjustments is attributable to noncontrolling interests. See Note 7 - Texas Pipeline Business. 
    
  Tax Credits, Benefits and Expenses 
  PTCs from wind projects and ITCs and deferred income tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs from solar and certain wind projects are reflected in NEER s earnings. PTCs are recognized as wind energy is generated and sold based on a per kWh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes, and were approximately $120 million, $149 million and $186 million in     2016  ,     2015     and     2014  , respectively. ITCs and deferred income tax benefits associated with convertible ITCs totaled approximately $150 million, $89 million and $84 million in     2016  ,     2015     and     2014  , respectively. A portion of the PTCs and ITCs have been allocated to investors in connection with sales of differential membership interests. Also in 2014, NEE's effective income tax rate was unfavorably affected by a noncash income tax charge of approximately $45 million associated with structuring Canadian assets, approximately $30 million of which was reversed in 2016. See Note 5  . 
    
  Capital Initiatives 
    
  NEER expects to add new contracted wind generation of approximately 2,400 MW to 4,100 MW, approximately 1,600 MW of additional repowering generation within the existing U.S. wind portfolio and new contracted solar generation of approximately 400 MW to 1,300 MW in 2017 to 2018 and will continue to pursue other additional investment opportunities that may develop. Projects developed by NEER might be offered for sale to NEP if NEER should seek to sell the projects. NEER will also continue to invest in the development of its natural gas pipeline infrastructure assets (see Item 1. Business - NEER - Generation and Other Operations - Contracted, Merchant and Other Operations - Other Operations). 
    
  Sale of Assets to NEP 
    
  In 2016 and 2015, indirect subsidiaries of NEER sold additional ownership interests in wind and solar projects to indirect subsidiaries of NEP. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP. 

Corporate and Other: Results of Operations 
    
  Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of the operating results of NEET, FPL FiberNet and other business activities, as well as corporate interest income and expenses. Corporate and Other allocates a portion of NEECH's corporate interest expense to NEER. Interest expense is allocated based on a deemed capital structure of 70% debt and, for purposes of allocating NEECH's corporate interest expense, the deferred credit associated with differential membership interests sold by NEER s subsidiaries is included with debt. Each subsidiary s income taxes are calculated based on the "separate return method," except that tax benefits that could not be used on a separate return basis, but are used on the consolidated tax return, are recorded by the subsidiary that  
  
   46 

     Table of Contents  

generated the tax benefits. Any remaining consolidated income tax benefits or expenses are recorded at Corporate and Other. The major components of Corporate and Other s results, on an after-tax basis, are as follows: 

The decrease in interest expense, net of allocations to NEER for 2016 primarily reflects net after-tax gains on interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments and foreign currency transactions as hedge accounting was discontinued effective January 2016. See Note 3. The decrease in   2015   reflects lower average debt balances due in part to a higher allocation of interest costs to NEER reflecting growth in NEER's business. The federal and state income tax benefits (expenses) reflect consolidating income tax adjustments, including, in 2016, approximately $57 million of income tax charges related to the sales of certain of NEER's natural gas generation facilities and the adoption of an accounting standards update (see Note 10 - Stock-Based Compensation), and in 2015, favorable changes in state income tax laws. Merger-related expenses increased in 2016 primarily related to the termination of the proposed merger between NEE, Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI) and two wholly owned direct subsidiaries of NEE (see Note 1 - Merger Termination) as well as costs associated with the EFH merger agreement and related transactions (see Note 7 - Pending Oncor-Related Transactions). Other - net includes all other corporate income and expenses, as well as other business activities. The increase in other - net for 2016 primarily reflects higher 2016 investment gains, debt reacquisition gains and higher results from NEET. The increase in other - net for 2015 primarily reflects 2015 investment gains compared to 2014 investment losses and the absence of debt reacquisition losses recorded in 2014. Substantially all of such investment gains and losses, on a pretax basis, is reflected in other - net in NEE's consolidated statements of income. 
    
  In January 2017, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NEE completed the sale of its membership interests in FPL FiberNet. In connection with the sale and the related consolidating state income tax effects, a gain of approximately   $1.1 billion   (approximately   $700 million   after tax) will be recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income during the three months ended March 31, 2017. See Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
    
  NEE and its subsidiaries require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for, among other things, working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, payment of maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, redemption or repurchase of outstanding debt or equity securities. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of cash flows from operations, short- and long-term borrowings, the issuance of short- and long-term debt and, from time to time, equity securities, and proceeds from differential membership investors, consistent with NEE s and FPL s objective of maintaining, on a long-term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating.     NE  E, FPL and NEECH rely on access to credit and capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of NEE, FPL and NEECH to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise short- and long-term capital, their cost of capital and the execution of their respective financing strategies, and could require the posting of additional collateral under certain agreements. 
    
  In October 2015, NEE authorized a program to purchase, from time to time, up to $150 million of common units representing limited partner interests of NEP. Under the program, any purchases may be made in amounts, at prices and at such times as NEE or its subsidiaries deem appropriate, all subject to market conditions and other considerations. The purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Any purchases will be made in such quantities, at such prices, in such manner and on such terms and conditions as determined by NEE or its subsidiaries in their discretion, based on factors such as market and business conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The common unit purchase program does not require NEE to acquire any specific number of common units and may be modified or terminated by NEE at any time. NEE owns and controls the general partner of NEP and beneficially owns approximately 66.1% of NEP s voting power at   December 31, 2016  . The purpose of the program is not to cause NEP s common units to be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange or to cause the common units to be deregistered with the SEC. As of   December 31, 2016  , NEE had purchased approximately $36 million of NEP common units under this program. Also in October 2015, NEP put in place an at-the-market equity issuance program pursuant to which NEP may issue from time to time, up to $150 million of its common units. As of   December 31, 2016  , NEP had issued approximately     $41 million of its common units under this program. 

47 

Table of Contents  

Cash Flows 
    
  NEE's increase in cash flows from operating activities for 2016 and 2015 primarily reflects operating cash generated from additional wind and solar facilities that were placed in service during or after 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
    
  NEE's sources and uses of cash for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   were as follows: 

NEE's primary capital requirements are for expanding and enhancing FPL's electric system and generation facilities to continue to provide reliable service to meet customer electricity demands and for funding NEER's investments in independent power and other projects. The following table provides a summary of the major capital investments for   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . 

48 

Table of Contents  

Liquidity 
    
  In early February 2017, FPL and NEECH extended the maturity date for a portion of their bank revolving line of credit facilities and NEECH increased a portion of its revolving credit facilities. The table below provides the components of FPL's and NEECH's estimated net available liquidity as of February 10, 2017 reflecting these changes. 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Provide for the funding of loans up to $7,880 million ($2,916 million for FPL) and the issuance of letters of credit up to $3,050 million ($670 million for FPL). The entire amount of the credit facilities is available for general corporate purposes and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a loss to the companies  or their subsidiaries  operating facilities (including, in the case of FPL, a transmission and distribution property loss). FPL s bank revolving line of credit facilities are also available to support the purchase of $778 million of pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds (tax exempt bonds) in the event they are tendered by individual bond holders and not remarketed prior to maturity. Approximately $2,315 million of FPL's and $3,730 million of NEECH's bank revolving line of credit facilities expire in 2022. 
               (c) 
    Only available for the issuance of letters of credit. 
              (d) 
    Excludes two variable rate bi-lateral term loan agreements totaling $7.5 billion discussed below. 
       
  As of     February 23, 2017  , 67     b  anks participate in FPL s and NEECH s revolving credit facilities, with no one bank providing more than 7% of the combined revolving credit facilities. European banks provide approximately 23  %     of the combined revolving credit facilities. Pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement, NEE guarantees the payment of NEECH s debt obligations under its revolving credit facilities.     In order for FPL or NEECH to borrow or to have letters of credit issued under the terms of their respective revolving credit facilities and, also for NEECH, its letter of credit facilities, FPL, in the case of FPL, and NEE, in the case of NEECH, are required, among other things, to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization that does not exceed a stated ratio.     The FPL and NEECH revolving credit facilities also contain default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of FPL and NEE, as the case may be, to maintain the respective ratio of funded debt to total capitalization at or below the specified ratio. At   December 31, 2016  , each of NEE and FPL was in compliance with its required ratio. 
    
  Additionally, at   December 31, 2016  , certain subsidiaries of NEP had credit or loan facilities with available liquidity as set forth in the table below. 
                                   
    Amount 
      
    Amount 
  Remaining 
  Available at 
  December 31, 2016 
      
    Rate 
      
    Maturity 
  Date 
      
    Purpose 
        
    (millions) 

Senior secured revolving credit facility   (a)  
    $250 
      
    $250 
      
    Variable 
      
    2019 
      
    Working capital, expansion projects, acquisitions and general business purposes 
      Senior secured limited-recourse revolving loan facility   (b)  
    $150 
      
    $  
      
    Variable 
      
    2020 
      
    General business purposes 

(a) 
    NEP OpCo and one of its direct subsidiaries are required to comply with certain financial covenants on a quarterly basis and NEP OpCo's ability to pay cash distributions to its unit holders is subject to certain other restrictions. The revolving credit facility includes borrowing capacity for letters of credit and incremental commitments to increase the revolving credit facility up to $1 billion in the aggregate. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by NEP OpCo and NEP. 
              (b) 
    A certain NEP subsidiary (borrower) is required to satisfy certain conditions, including among other things, meeting a leverage ratio at the time of any borrowing that does not exceed a specified ratio. Borrowings under this revolving loan facility are secured by liens on certain of the borrower's assets and certain of the borrower's subsidiaries' assets, as well as the ownership interest in the borrower. The revolving loan facility contains default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of the borrower to maintain a leverage ratio at or below the specified ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. 
     
   49 

     Table of Contents  

In February 2017, NEECH entered into two variable rate bi-lateral term loan agreements each providing for a $3.75 billion short-term, non-revolving term loan facility, for a total of $7.5 billion, the loan proceeds of which are available for general corporate purposes, including to finance a portion of the purchase price payable by NEE for the acquisition of Oncor (see Item 1. Business - Overview). The obligation to make loans pursuant to these bi-lateral term loan agreements terminates in August 2017 and each loan agreement expires in February 2018. Each of these bi-lateral term loan agreements contain default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, the failure to make required payments or to observe other covenants in the loan agreement, including financial covenants relating to the ratio of NEE s funded debt to total capitalization, and certain bankruptcy-related events. NEE guarantees the payment of debt obligations under the loan agreements pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement. There are currently no amounts outstanding under these facilities. 
    
  Capital Support 
    
  Guarantees, Letters of Credit, Surety Bonds and Indemnifications (Guarantee Arrangements)  
  Certain subsidiaries of NEE issue guarantees and obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, as well as provide indemnities, to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. Substantially all of the guarantee arrangements are on behalf of NEE s consolidated subsidiaries, as discussed in more detail below. NEE is not required to recognize liabilities associated with guarantee arrangements issued on behalf of its consolidated subsidiaries unless it becomes probable that they will be required to perform. At   December 31, 2016  , NEE believes that there is no material exposure related to these guarantee arrangements. 
    
  NEE subsidiaries issue guarantees related to equity contribution agreements associated with the development, construction and financing of certain power generation facilities, engineering, procurement and construction agreements and natural gas pipeline development projects. Commitments associated with these activities are included in the contracts table in Note 13.  
    
  In addition, as of   December 31, 2016  , NEE subsidiaries had approximately $2.4 billion in guarantees related to obligations under purchased power agreements, nuclear-related activities, payment obligations related to PTCs and the non-receipt of proceeds from cash grants under the Recovery Act, as well as other types of contractual obligations. 
    
  In some instances, subsidiaries of NEE elect to issue guarantees instead of posting other forms of collateral required under certain financing arrangements, as well as for other project-level cash management activities. As of   December 31, 2016  , these guarantees totaled approximately $607 million and support, among other things, cash management activities, including those related to debt service and O M service agreements, as well as other specific project financing requirements. 
    
  Subsidiaries of NEE also issue guarantees to support customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading activities, including the buying and selling of wholesale and retail energy commodities. As of   December 31, 2016  , the estimated mark-to-market exposure (the total amount that these subsidiaries of NEE could be required to fund based on energy commodity market prices at December 31, 2016) plus contract settlement net payables, net of collateral posted for obligations under these guarantees totaled approximately $650 million. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2016  , subsidiaries of NEE also had approximately $1.0 billion of standby letters of credit and approximately $333 million of surety bonds to support certain of the commercial activities discussed above. FPL's and NEECH's credit facilities are available to support the amount of the standby letters of credit. 
    
  In addition, as part of contract negotiations in the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of NEE have agreed and in the future may agree to make payments to compensate or indemnify other parties, including those associated with asset divestitures,  for possible unfavorable financial consequences resulting from specified events. The specified events may include, but are not limited to, an adverse judgment in a lawsuit or the imposition of additional taxes due to a change in tax law or interpretations of the tax law or the triggering of cash grant recapture provisions under the Recovery Act. NEE is unable to estimate the maximum potential  amount of future payments under some of these contracts because events that would obligate them to make payments have not yet occurred or, if any such event has occurred, they have not been notified of its occurrence. 
    
  Certain guarantee arrangements described above contain requirements for NEECH and FPL to maintain a specified credit rating. For a discussion of credit rating downgrade triggers see Credit Ratings below. NEE has guaranteed certain payment obligations of NEECH, including most of its debt and all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its payment guarantees and indemnifications, and NEECH has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of NEER and its subsidiaries. 
    
  Shelf Registration 
  In July 2015, NE  E, NEECH and FPL filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for an unspecified amount of securities which became effective upon filing. The amount of securities issuable by the companies is established from time to time by their respective boards of directors. Securities that may be issued under the registration statement include, depending on the registrant, senior debt securities, subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debentures, first mortgage bonds, common stock, preferred stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, warrants and guarantees related to certain of those securities.    

50 

     Table of Contents  

Contractual Obligations and Estimated Capital Expenditures 
    
  NEE s commitments at   December 31, 2016   were as follows: 

_________________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes principal, interest, interest rate contracts and payments by NEE under stock purchase contracts. Variable rate interest was computed using   December 31, 2016   rates. See Note 11. 
              (b) 
    Includes tax exempt bonds of approximately $9 million in 2020, $46 million in 2021 and $723 million thereafter that permit individual bond holders to tender the bonds for purchase at any time prior to maturity. In the event bonds are tendered for purchase, they would be remarketed by a designated remarketing agent in accordance with the related indenture. If the remarketing is unsuccessful, FPL would be required to purchase the tax exempt bonds. As of   December 31, 2016  , all tax exempt bonds tendered for purchase have been successfully remarketed. FPL s bank revolving line of credit facilities are available to support the purchase of tax exempt bonds. 
              (c) 
    Represents required capacity and minimum charges under long-term purchased power and fuel contracts, projected capital expenditures through 2021 and the purchase price of the Indiantown generation facility (see Note 13 - Commitments and - Contracts). 
               (e) 
    Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities. 
              (f) 
    At   December 31, 2016  , FPL had approximately $3,665 million in restricted funds for the payment of its portion of future expenditures to decommission the Turkey Point and St. Lucie nuclear units, which are included in NEE s and FPL s special use funds. See Note 12. 
              (g) 
    At   December 31, 2016  , NEER had approximately $1,769 million in restricted funds for the payment of its portion of future expenditures to decommission Seabrook, Duane Arnold and Point Beach nuclear units which are included in NEE s special use funds. See Note 12. 
              (h) 
    Represents estimated cash distributions related to differential membership interests and payments related to the acquisition of certain development rights. For further discussion of differential membership interests, see Note 1 - Sale of Differential Membership Interests. 
       
  Credit Ratings 
    
  NEE s liquidity, ability to access credit and capital markets, cost of borrowings and collateral posting requirements under certain agreements is dependent on its and its subsidiaries credit ratings. At   February 23, 2017  , Moody s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody s), Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (S P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) had assigned the following credit ratings to NEE, FPL and NEECH: 
                           
    Moody's   (a)  
      
    S P   (a)  
      
    Fitch   (a)  
      NEE:   (b)  

Corporate credit rating 
    Baa1 
      
    A- 
      
    A- 

FPL:   (b)  

Corporate credit rating 
    A1 
      
    A- 
      
    A 
      First mortgage bonds 
    Aa2 
      
    A 
      
    AA- 
      Pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds   (c)  
    VMIG-1/P-1 
      
    A-2 
      
    F1 
      Commercial paper 
    P-1 
      
    A-2 
      
    F1 

NEECH:   (b)  

Corporate credit rating 
    Baa1 
      
    A- 
      
    A- 
      Debentures 
    Baa1 
      
    BBB+ 
      
    A- 
      Junior subordinated debentures 
    Baa2 
      
    BBB 
      
    BBB 
      Commercial paper 
    P-2 
      
    A-2 
      
    F2 

_________________________ 
           (a) 
    A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. 
              (b) 
    The outlook indicated by each of Moody's, S P and Fitch is stable. 
              (c) 
    Short-term ratings are presented as all bonds outstanding are currently paying a short-term interest rate. At FPL's election, a portion or all of the bonds may be adjusted to a long-term interest rate. 

51 

     Table of Contents  

NEE and its subsidiaries have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities noted above, the maintenance of a specific minimum credit rating is not a condition to drawing on these credit facilities. 
    
  Commitment fees and interest rates on loans under these credit facilities  agreements are tied to credit ratings. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper and other short-term debt issuances and borrowings and additional or replacement credit facilities. In addition, a ratings downgrade could result in, among other things, the requirement that NEE subsidiaries post collateral under certain agreements and guarantee arrangements, including, but not limited to, those related to fuel procurement, power sales and purchases, nuclear decommissioning funding, debt-related reserves and trading activities. FPL s and NEECH s credit facilities are available to support these potential requirements. 
    
  Covenants 
    
  NEE's charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of NEE to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. For example, FPL pays dividends to NEE in a manner consistent with FPL's long-term targeted capital structure. However, the mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to NEE and the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds. Additionally, in some circumstances, the mortgage restricts the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPL's use of retained earnings. As of   December 31, 2016  , no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage and, in light of FPL's current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. 
    
  FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, wh  ich generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPL s first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and any other non-junior FPL indebtedness. As of   December 31, 2016  , coverage for the 12 months ended   December 31, 2016   would have been approximately 8.5 times the annual interest requirements and approximately 4.2 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset property retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage trustee. As of   December 31, 2016  , FPL could have issued in excess of $13.5 billion of additional first mortgage bonds based on the unfunded property additions and in excess of $6.3 billion based on retired first mortgage bonds. As of   December 31, 2016  , no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes. 
    
  In September 2006, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, September 2006 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $350 million principal amount of Series B Enhanced Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (Series B junior subordinated debentures). The September 2006 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness (covered debt) of NEECH (other than the Series B junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. FPL Group Capital Trust I's 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the September 2006 RCC. The September 2006 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem, and NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series B junior subordinated debentures on or before October 1, 2036, only to the extent that the redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount of proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities, subject to certain limitations described in the September 2006 RCC. Qualifying securities are securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the Series B junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption or purchase, which are sold within 365 days prior to the date of the redemption or repurchase of the Series B junior subordinated debentures. 
    
  In June 2007, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, June 2007 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $400 million principal amount of its Series C Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (Series C junior subordinated debentures). The June 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of NEECH (other than the Series C junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. FPL Group Capital Trust I's 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the June 2007 RCC. The June 2007 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem or purchase, or satisfy, discharge or defease (collectively, defease), and NEE and any majority-owned subsidiary of NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series C junior subordinated debentures on or before June 15, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 365 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series C junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the June 2007 RCC. 
    
  In September 2007, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, September 2007 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $250 million principal amount of its Series D Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (Series D junior subordinated debentures). The September 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of NEECH (other than the Series D junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. FPL Group Capital Trust I's 5 7/8% Preferred Trust Securities have been initially designated as the covered debt under the September 2007 RCC. The September  
  
   52 

     Table of Contents  

2007 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem, purchase, or defease, and NEE and any majority-owned subsidiary of NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series D junior subordinated debentures on or before September 1, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 365 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series D junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the September 2007 RCC. 

New Accounting Rules and Interpretations 
    
  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis   - In February 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standards update that modified consolidation guidance. See Note 8. 
    
  Revenue Recognition -   In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standards update related to the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers and required disclosures. See Note 1 - Revenues and Rates. 
    
  Financial Instruments   - In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update which modifies guidance regarding certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. See Note 4 - Financial Instruments Accounting Standards Update. 
    
  Leases   - In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update which requires, among other things, that lessees recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases. See Note 1 - Leases. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
    
  NEE s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which were prepared under GAAP. Critical accounting policies are those that NEE believes are both most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and require complex, subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. 
    
  NEE considers the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing its consolidated financial statements: 

Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
    
  NEE uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk associated primarily with outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings. In addition, NEE, through NEER, uses derivatives to optimize the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets and engages in power and   gas   marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. 
    
  Nature of Accounting Estimates 
    
  Accounting pronouncements require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, which requires significant judgment to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities. This applies not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying derivatives accounting guidance to contracts. In the event changes in interpretation occur, it is possible that contracts that currently are excluded from derivatives accounting rules would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in the statement of income. 
    
  Assumptions and Accounting Approach 
    
  Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair values for some of the longer-term contracts where liquid markets are not available are derived through internally developed models which estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date.     The near-term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. NEE estimates the fair value of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives using a discounted cash flows valuation technique based on the net amount of estimated future cash inflows and outflows related to the derivative agreements. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the derivative. 
  
   53 

     Table of Contents  

At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the   fuel clause  . See Note 3. 
    
  In NEE s non-rate regulated operations, predominantly NEER, essentially all changes in the derivatives  fair value for power purchases and sales, fuel sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating revenues; fuel purchases used in the production of electricity are recognized in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees  related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in NEE s consolidated statements of income.  
    
  In January 2016, NEE discontinued hedge accounting for its cash flow and fair value hedges related to interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments and, therefore, all changes in the derivatives' fair value are recognized in interest expense in NEE's consolidated statements of income. NEE estimates the fair value of these derivatives based on a discounted cash flows valuation technique utilizing observable inputs.  
    
  Certain derivative transactions at NEER are entered into as economic hedges but the transactions do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting, hedge accounting treatment is not elected or hedge accounting has been discontinued.   Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the consolidated statements of income, resulting in earnings volatility. These changes in fair value are reflected in the non-qualifying hedge category in computing adjusted earnings and could be significant to NEER s results because the economic offset to the positions are not marked to market. As a consequence, NEE's net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically-linked transactions. For example, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category for certain energy derivatives is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under GAAP. For this reason, NEE s management views results expressed excluding the unrealized mark-to-market impact of the non-qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 3, Overview and Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity. 

Accounting for Pension Benefits 
    
  NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. Management believes that, based on actuarial assumptions and the well-funded status of the pension plan, NEE will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing benefits under the plan. NEE allocates net periodic income associated with the pension plan to its subsidiaries annually using specific criteria. 
    
  Nature of Accounting Estimates 
    
  For the pension plan, the benefit obligation is the actuarial present value, as of the December 31 measurement date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered to that date. The amount of benefit to be paid depends on a number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including an estimate of the average remaining life of employees/survivors as well as the average years of service rendered. The projected benefit obligation is measured based on assumptions concerning future interest rates and future employee compensation levels. NEE derives pension income from actuarial calculations based on the plan s provisions and various management assumptions including discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. 
    
  Assumptions and Accounting Approach 
    
  Accounting guidance requires recognition of the funded status of the pension plan in the balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized in other comprehensive income within shareholders  equity in the year in which the changes occur. Since NEE is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, this accounting guidance is reflected at NEE and not allocated to the subsidiaries. The portion of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs or credits that are estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic (income) cost in future periods and that otherwise would be recorded in AOCI are classified as regulatory assets and liabilities at NEE in accordance with regulatory treatment. 
    
  Net periodic pension income is included in O M expenses, and is calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions for the years ended   December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014   include: 

___________________ 

54 

     Table of Contents  

In developing these assumptions, NEE evaluated input, including other qualitative and quantitative factors, from its actuaries and consultants, as well as information available in the marketplace. In addition, for the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, NEE considered different models, capital market return assumptions and historical returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to   its pension fund, as well as its pension fund's historical compounded returns. NEE believes that   7.35%   is a reasonable long-term rate of return, net of investment management f  ees, on its pension plan assets. NEE will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as appropriate. 
    
  NEE utilizes in its determination of pension income a market-related valuation of plan assets. This market-related valuation reduces year-to-year volatility and recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period following the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return realized on those plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of plan assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension income only to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market-related value of plan assets. 
    
  The following table illustrates the effect on net periodic income of changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant: 

NEE also utilizes actuarial assumptions about mortality to help estimate obligations of the pension plan. NEE has adopted the latest revised mortality tables and mortality improvement scales released by the Society of Actuaries, which adoption did not have a material impact on the pension plan's obligation. 
    
  See Note 2. 

Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets 
    
  NEE evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
    
  Nature of Accounting Estimates 
    
  The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long-lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. 
    
  Assumptions and Accounting Approach 
    
  An impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds the asset s fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. See Management's Discussion - NEER: Results of Operations - Gas Infrastructure. 

Decommissioning and Dismantlement 
    
  NEE accounts for AROs under accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if it can be reasonably estimated, with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived assets. 

55 

     Table of Contents  

Nature of Accounting Estimates 
    
  The calculation of the future cost of retiring long-lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and plant dismantlement costs, involves estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures and making judgments concerning whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation. Estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures includes, among other things, making projections of when assets will be retired and ultimately decommissioned and how costs will escalate with inflation. In addition, NEE also makes interest rate and rate of return projections on its investments in determining recommended funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Periodically, NEE is required to update these estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. For example, an increase of 0.25% in the assumed escalation rates for nuclear decommissioning costs would increase NEE s asset retirement obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations (collectively, AROs) as of   December 31, 2016   by $185 million. 
    
  Assumptions and Accounting Approach 
    
  FPL -     For ratemaking purpos  es, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are approved by the FPSC. The studies reflect, among other things, the expiration dates of the operating licenses for FPL s nuclear units. The most recent studies, filed in 2015, indicate that FPL s portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under the spent fuel settlement agreement, is approximately   $7.5 billion  , or   $3.0 billion   expressed in   2016   dollars. 
    
  FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil and solar plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies became effective January 1, 2017. At   December 31, 2016  , FPL s portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil and solar units is approximately   $1.3 billion  , or   $480 million   expressed in   2016   dollars. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered AROs. FPL accrues for interim removal costs over the life of the related assets based on depreciation studies approved by the FPSC. Any differences between the ARO amou  nt recorded and the amount recorded for ratemaking purposes are reported as a regulatory liability in accordance with regulatory accounting. 
    
  The components of FPL s decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Included in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE s and FPL s consolidated balance sheets. 
              (b) 
    Represents total amount accrued for ratemaking purposes. 
       
  NEER -     NEER records liabilities for the present value of its expected nuclear plant decommissioning costs which are determined using various internal and external data and applying a probability percentage to a variety of scenarios regarding the life of the plant and timing of decommissioning. The liabilities are being accreted using the interest method through the date decommissioning activities are expected to be complete. At     December 31, 2016  , the AROs for decommissioning of NEER s nuclear plants totaled approximately     $451 million  . NEER s portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its nuclear plants, including costs associated with spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under the spent fuel settlement agreement, is estimated to be approximately     $11.8 billion  , or     $2.0 billion     expressed in     2016     dollars. 
    
  See Note 1 - Asset Retirement Obligations and - Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 12. 

Regulatory Accounting 
    
  Certain of NEE's businesses are subject to rate regulation which results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation for a detail of NEE s regulatory assets and liabilities.  

56 

     Table of Contents  

Nature of Accounting Estimates 
    
  Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and liabilities are included in rate base or otherwise earn (pay) a return on investment during the recovery period. 
    
  Assumptions and Accounting Approach 
    
  Accounting guidance allows regulators to create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non-rate regulated entities. If NEE's rate-regulated entities, primarily FPL, were no longer subject to cost-based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the regulators, including the FPSC for FPL, have the authority to disallow recovery of costs that they consider excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, fuel and O M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of regulatory accounting is assessed at each reporting period. 

ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING AND MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY 
    
  NEE and FPL are exposed to risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices.     Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of NEE and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year.   Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage such market risks, as well as credit risks. 
    
  Commodity Price Risk 
    
  NEE and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. In addition, NEE, through NEER, uses derivatives to optimize the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets and engages in power and     gas     marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities and Note 3. 
    
  During   2015   and   2016  , the changes in the fair value of NEE s consolidated subsidiaries  energy contract derivative instruments were as follows: 

57 

     Table of Contents  

NEE s total mark-to-market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at   December 31, 2016   shown above are included on the consolidated balance sheets as follows: 

The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at   December 31, 2016   were as follows:  

With respect to commodities, NEE s Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, and NEE's chief executive officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC and NEE's chief executive officer receive periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. 
    
  NEE uses a value-at-risk (VaR) model to measure commodity price market risk in its trading and mark-to-market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated nominal loss of market value based on a one-day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. As of   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , the VaR figures are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Non-qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets or contracts which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non-qualifying hedges and hedges in FPL cost recovery clauses category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements. 

58 

     Table of Contents  

Interest Rate Risk 
    
  NEE's and FPL's financial results are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their respective outstanding and expected future issuances of debt, investments in special use funds and other investments. NEE and FPL manage their respective interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates, entering into interest rate contracts and using a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt. Interest rate contracts are used to mitigate and adjust interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements. 
    
  The following are estimates of the fair value of NEE's and FPL's financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 
   
 ______________________ 
           (a) 
    Primarily estimated using a market approach based on quoted market prices for these or similar issues. 
              (b) 
    Primarily estimated using an income approach utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique based on certain observable yield curves and indices considering the credit profile of the borrower. 
              (c) 
    Estimated using either a market approach based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or an income approach utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique, considering the current credit profile of the debtor. 
              (d) 
    Modeled internally using an income approach utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique and applying a credit valuation adjustment. 
       
  The special use funds of NEE and FPL consist of restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of NEE's and FPL's nuclear power plants. See Note 1 - Securitized Storm-Recovery Costs, Storm Fund and Storm Reserve. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities primarily carried at estimated fair value. At FPL, changes in fair value, including any OTTI losses, result in a corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment. The changes in fair value of NEE's non-rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI, except for impairments deemed to be other than temporary, including any credit losses, which are reported in current period earnings. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer-term securities, as decommissioning activities are not scheduled to begin until at least 2030 (2032 at FPL). 
    
  As of   December 31, 2016  , NEE had interest rate contracts with a notional amount of approximately $  15.1 billion   related to outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings, of which $13.5 billion manages exposure to the variability of cash flows associated with outstanding and expected future debt issuances at NEECH and NEER. The remaining $1.6 billion of notional amount of interest rate contracts effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt instruments at NEECH. See Note 3. 
    
  Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near-term market change, the net fair value of NEE s net liabilities would increase by approximately $1,515 million ($459 million for FPL) at   December 31, 2016  . 
    
  Equity Price Risk 
    
  NEE and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in prices for equity securities. For example, NEE s nuclear decommissioning reserve funds include marketable equity securities primarily carried at their market value of approximately   $2,913 million   and   $2,674 million   (  $1,745 million   and   $1,598 million   for FPL) at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , respectively. At   December 31, 2016  , a hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near-term market change, would result in a $272 million ($162 million for FPL) reduction in fair value. For FPL, a corresponding adjustment would be made to the related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment, and for NEE s non-rate regulated operations, a corresponding adjustment would be made to OCI to the extent the market value of the securities exceeded amortized cost and to OTTI loss to the extent the market value is below amortized cost. 

59 

     Table of Contents  

Credit Risk 
    
  NEE and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. NEE manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees. 
    
  Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. NEE s credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. For all derivative and contractual transactions, NEE s energy marketing and trading operations, which include FPL's energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Some relevant considerations when assessing NEE s energy marketing and trading operations  credit risk exposure include the following: 

Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry. 
                
    Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the U.S. 
                
    Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies and is overseen by the EMC. 
                
    Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of margin cash collateral. 
                
    Master netting agreements are used to offset cash and non-cash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. NEE s policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties. 
       
  Based on NEE s policies and risk exposures related to credit, NEE and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial statements as a result of counterparty nonperformance. As of   December 31, 2016  , approximately   94%   of NEE s and   100%   of FPL's energy marketing and trading counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have investment grade credit ratings. 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
    
  See Management s Discussion   Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity. 

60 

Table of Contents  

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
    
  NextEra Energy, Inc.'s (NEE) and Florida Power   Light Company's (FPL) management are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). The consolidated financial statements, which in part are based on informed judgments and estimates made by management, have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. 
    
  To aid in carrying out this responsibility, we, along with all other members of management, maintain a system of internal accounting control which is established after weighing the cost of such controls against the benefits derived. In the opinion of management, the overall system of internal accounting control provides reasonable assurance that the assets of NEE and FPL and their subsidiaries are safeguarded and that transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and are properly recorded for the preparation of financial statements. In addition, management believes the overall system of internal accounting control provides reasonable assurance that material errors or irregularities would be prevented or detected on a timely basis by employees in the normal course of their duties. Any system of internal accounting control, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility that controls can be circumvented or overridden and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time. Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting. 
    
  The system of internal accounting control is supported by written policies and guidelines, the selection and training of qualified employees, an organizational structure that provides an appropriate division of responsibility and a program of internal auditing. NEE's written policies include a Code of Business Conduct   Ethics that states management's policy on conflicts of interest and ethical conduct. Compliance with the Code of Business Conduct   Ethics is confirmed annually by key personnel. 
    
  The Board of Directors pursues its oversight responsibility for financial reporting and accounting through its Audit Committee. This Committee, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, meets regularly with management, the internal auditors and the independent auditors to make inquiries as to the manner in which the responsibilities of each are being discharged. The independent auditors and the internal audit staff have free access to the Committee without management's presence to discuss auditing, internal accounting control and financial reporting matters. 
    
  Management assessed the effectiveness of NEE's and FPL's internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  . Based on this assessment, management believes that NEE's and FPL's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   December 31, 2016  . 
    
  NEE's and FPL's independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, is engaged to express an opinion on NEE's and FPL's consolidated financial statements and an opinion on NEE's and FPL's internal control over financial reporting. Their reports are based on procedures believed by them to provide a reasonable basis to support such opinions. These reports appear on the following pages. 
    
                   JAMES L. ROBO 
      
    JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      James L. Robo 
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of NEE and Chairman of FPL 
      
    John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of NEE and FPL 

TERRELL KIRK CREWS, II 

Terrell Kirk Crews, II Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of NEE 

ERIC E. SILAGY 
      
    KIMBERLY OUSDAHL 
      Eric E. Silagy 
  President and Chief Executive Officer of FPL 
      
    Kimberly Ousdahl 
  Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL 

61 

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  NextEra Energy, Inc. and Florida Power   Light Company 
    
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of NextEra Energy, Inc. and subsidiaries (NextEra Energy) and Florida Power   Light Company and subsidiaries (FPL) as of     December 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework     (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. NextEra Energy's and FPL s management are responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for their assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on NextEra Energy s and FPL s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In our opinion, NextEra Energy and FPL maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended   December 31, 2016   of NextEra Energy and FPL and our report dated   February 23, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 

DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  Certified Public Accountants 
    
  Boca Raton, Florida 
  February 23, 2017    

62 

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
  NextEra Energy, Inc. and Florida Power   Light Company 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NextEra Energy, Inc. and subsidiaries (NextEra Energy) and the separate consolidated balance sheets of Florida Power   Light Company and subsidiaries (FPL) as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and NextEra Energy's and FPL's related consolidated statements of income, NextEra Energy's consolidated statements of comprehensive income, NextEra Energy's and FPL's consolidated statements of cash flows, NextEra Energy s consolidated statements of equity, and FPL s consolidated statements of common shareholder s equity for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016  . These financial statements are the responsibility of NextEra Energy's and FPL's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of NextEra Energy, Inc. and subsidiaries and the consolidated financial position of Florida Power   Light Company and subsidiaries at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2016  , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), NextEra Energy s and FPL s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated   February 23, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion on NextEra Energy s and FPL s internal control over financial reporting. 

DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  Certified Public Accountants 
    
  Boca Raton, Florida 
  February 23, 2017 

63 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  (millions, except per share amounts) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

64 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  (millions) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

65 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (millions, except par value) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

66 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (millions) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
  
   67 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY 
  (millions) 

___________________________ 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
  
   68 

Table of Contents  

FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  (millions) 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    FPL's comprehensive income is the same as reported net income. 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

69 

Table of Contents  

FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (millions, except share amount) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

70 

Table of Contents  

FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (millions) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
  
   71 

Table of Contents  

FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY 
  (millions) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

72 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  Years Ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies 
    
  Basis of Presentation   - The operations of NextEra Energy, Inc. (NEE) are conducted primarily through Florida Power   Light Company (FPL), a wholly owned subsidiary, and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC (NEER), a wholly owned indirect subsidiary. FPL, a rate-regulated electric utility, supplies electric service to approximately   4.9   million customer accounts throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. NEER invests in independent power projects through both controlled and consolidated entities and noncontrolling ownership interests in joint ventures essentially all of which are accounted for under the equity method. NEER also participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production primarily through non-operating ownership interests and in pipeline infrastructure through either wholly owned subsidiaries or noncontrolling or joint venture interests. 
    
  The consolidated financial statements of NEE and FPL include the accounts of their respective majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain amounts included in prior years' consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
    
  NextEra Energy Partners, LP   - NEE, through NEER, formed NextEra Energy Partners, LP (NEP) to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in NextEra Energy Operating Partners, LP (NEP OpCo). On July 1, 2014, NEP closed its initial public offering (IPO) by issuing   18,687,500   common units representing limited partner interests. The proceeds from the sale of the common units, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and structuring fees, were approximately $  438 million  . NEP used such proceeds to purchase   18,687,500   common units of NEP OpCo, of which approximately $  288 million   was used to purchase common units from an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NEE and $  150 million   was used to purchase common units from NEP OpCo. Through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, NEE retained   74,440,000   units of NEP OpCo representing a   79.9%   interest in NEP's operating projects. Additionally, NEE owns a controlling general partner interest in NEP and consolidates NEP for financial reporting purposes and presents NEP's limited partner interest as a noncontrolling interest in NEE's consolidated financial statements. Certain equity and asset transactions between NEP, NEER and NEP OpCo involve the exchange of cash, energy projects and ownership interests in NEP OpCo. These exchanges are accounted for under the profit sharing method and resulted in a profit sharing liability, net of amortization, of approximately $  757 million   and $  447 million   at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, which is reflected in noncurrent other liabilities on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. The profit sharing liability will be amortized into income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the underlying energy projects held by NEP OpCo. Accordingly, the profit sharing liability amortization totaled approximately $  37 million   during 2016 and is included in taxes other than income taxes and other - net in NEE s consolidated statements of income. During the purchase price adjustment period associated with the IPO, which ended in November 2016, approximately   $288 million   of the profit sharing liability was not amortized. 
    
  During 2015 and 2016, NEP sold an additional   35,527,435   common units and purchased an additional   35,527,435   NEP OpCo common units. Also, in 2015, a subsidiary of NEE purchased   27,000,000   of NEP OpCo's common units. After giving effect to these transactions, NEE s partnership interest in NEP OpCo's operating projects is approximately   65.2%   as of   December 31, 2016  . As of   December 31, 2016  , NEP, through NEER's contribution of energy projects to NEP OpCo, owns or has an interest in a portfolio of   22   wind and solar projects with generating capacity totaling approximately   2,787   megawatts (MW), as well as a portfolio of seven long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in Texas. 
    
  In October 2015, NEE authorized a program to purchase, from time to time, up to $  150 million   of common units representing limited partner interests of NEP. Under the program, any purchases may be made in amounts, at prices and at such times as NEE or its subsidiaries deem appropriate, all subject to market conditions and other considerations. The common unit purchase program does not require NEE to acquire any specific number of common units and may be modified or terminated by NEE at any time. The purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of   December 31, 2016  , NEE had purchased approximately $  36 million   of NEP common units under this program.  
    
  Rate Regulation   - FPL is subject to rate regulation by the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Its rates are designed to recover the cost of providing electric service to its customers including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. As a result of this cost-based regulation, FPL follows the accounting guidance that allows regulators to create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non-rate regulated entities. Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. 

73 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

NEE's and FPL's regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows: 

Cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expense, certain costs associated with the acquisition of certain generation facilities, certain construction-related costs for certain of FPL's solar generation facilities, and conservation and certain environmental-related costs.     Revenues from cost recovery clauses are recorded when billed; FPL achieves matching of costs and related revenues by deferring the net underrecovery or overrecovery. Any underrecovered costs or overrecovered revenues are collected from or returned to customers in subsequent periods. 
    
  In 2015, FPL assumed ownership of a 250 MW coal-fired generation facility located in Jacksonville, Florida (Cedar Bay generation facility) and terminated its long-term purchased power agreement for substantially all of the facility s capacity and energy for a purchase price of approximately   $521 million  . The FPSC approved a stipulation and settlement between the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel and FPL regarding issues relating to the ratemaking treatment for the Cedar Bay generation facility which provides for recovery of the purchase price and associated income tax gross-up as a regulatory asset of approximately   $847 million   which will be amortized over approximately   nine years  . At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , the regulatory assets, net of amortization, totaled approximately   $726 million   and   $817 million  , respectively, and are included in current and noncurrent regulatory assets on NEE s and FPL s consolidated balance sheets. This settlement also reduced the reserve amount that was available for amortization under the 2012 rate agreement by   $30 million   to   $370 million  . See Revenues and Rates - FPL Rates Effective January 2013 through December 2016 below. In December 2016, FPL retired the Cedar Bay generation facility. 
    
  If FPL were no longer subject to cost-based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. The continued applicability of regulatory accounting is assessed at each reporting period. 
    
  Revenues and Rates   - FPL's retail and wholesale utility rate schedules are approved by the FPSC and the FERC, respectively. FPL records unbilled base revenues for the estimated amount of energy delivered to customers but not yet billed. FPL's unbilled base revenues are included in customer receivables on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets and amounted to approximately   $261 million   and   $246 million   at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , respectively. FPL's operating revenues also include amounts resulting from cost recovery clauses (see Rate Regulation above), franchise fees, gross receipts taxes and surcharges related to storm-recovery bonds (see Note 8 - FPL). Franchise fees and gross receipts taxes are imposed on FPL; however, the FPSC allows FPL to include in the amounts charged to customers the amount of the gross receipts tax for all customers and the franchise fee for those customers located in the jurisdiction that imposes the amount. Accordingly, franchise fees and gross receipts taxes are reported  
  
   74 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

gross in operating revenues and taxes other than income taxes and other in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of income and were approximately   $700 million  ,   $722 million   and   $716 million   in   2016, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. The revenues from the surcharges related to storm-recovery bonds included in operating revenues in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of income were approximately   $119 million  ,   $115 million   and   $109 million   in   2016, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. FPL also collects municipal utility taxes which are reported gross in customer receivables and accounts payable on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 
    
  FPL Rates Effective January 2017 through December 2020 - In December 2016, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between FPL and several intervenors in FPL's base rate proceeding (2016 rate agreement). Key elements of the 2016 rate agreement, which is effective from January 2017 through at least December 2020, include, among other things, the following:  

New retail base rates and charges were established resulting in the following increases in annualized retail base revenues: 
                  
    $200 million   when a new approximately   1,750   MW natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in Okeechobee County, Florida achieves commercial operation, which is expected to occur in mid-2019. 
                
    In addition, FPL is eligible to receive, subject to conditions specified in the 2016 rate agreement, base rate increases associated with the addition of up to   300   MW annually of new solar generation in each of 2017 through 2020 and may carry forward any unused MW to subsequent years during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. FPL will be required to demonstrate that any proposed solar facilities are cost effective and scheduled to be in service before December 31, 2021. FPL has agreed to an installed cost cap of   $1,750   per kilowatt (kW). 
                
    FPL's allowed regulatory return on common equity (ROE) is   10.55%  , with a range of   9.60%   to   11.60%  . If FPL's earned regulatory ROE falls below   9.60%  , FPL may seek retail base rate relief. If the earned regulatory ROE rises above   11.60%  , any party other than FPL may seek a review of FPL's retail base rates. 
                
    Subject to certain conditions, FPL may amortize, over the term of the 2016 rate agreement, up to   $1.0 billion   of depreciation reserve surplus plus the reserve amount remaining under FPL's 2012 rate agreement discussed below (approximately   $250 million  ), provided that in any year of the 2016 rate agreement, FPL must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a   9.60%   earned regulatory ROE but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory ROE in excess of   11.60%  . 
                
    Future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning   60   days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than   $4   for every   1,000   kilowatt-hour (kWh) of usage on residential bills during the first   12   months of cost recovery. Any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. If storm restoration costs exceed   $800 million   in any given calendar year, FPL may request an increase to the   $4   surcharge to recover amounts above   $400 million  . 
       
  In January 2017, the Sierra Club filed a notice of appeal challenging the FPSC s final order approving the 2016 rate agreement, which notice of appeal is pending before the Florida Supreme Court. 
    
  FPL Rates Effective January 2013 through December 2016 - Effective January 2013, pursuant to an FPSC final order approving a stipulation and settlement between FPL and several intervenors in FPL's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement), new retail base rates and charges for FPL were established resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of   $350 million   on an annualized basis. The 2012 rate agreement, provided for, among other things, the following: 

an increase in annualized base revenue requirements as each of three FPL modernized power plants became operational in April 2013, April 2014 and April 2016; 
                
    the continuation of cost recovery through the capacity clause (reported as retail base revenues) for a generating unit which was placed in service in May 2011 (beginning January 2017, under the 2016 rate agreement, cost recovery will be through base rates); 
                
    subject to certain conditions, the right to reduce depreciation expense up to   $400 million   (reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, FPL was required to amortize enough reserve to maintain an earned regulatory ROE within the range of   9.50%   to   11.50%   (see Rate Regulation above regarding a subsequent reduction in the reserve amount); 
                
    an interim cost recovery mechanism for storm restoration costs (see Securitized Storm-Recovery Costs, Storm Fund and Storm Reserve below); and 
                
    an incentive mechanism whereby customers receive   100%   of certain gains, including but not limited to, gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold were shared by FPL and its customers. 
       
  NEER's revenue is recorded on the basis of commodities delivered, contracts settled or services rendered and includes estimated amounts yet to be billed to customers. Certain commodity contracts for the purchase and sale of power that meet the definition of a derivative are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized as revenue. See Energy Trading below and Note 3. 
  
   75 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standards update which provides guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers and requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows from an entity's contracts with customers. The standards update will be effective for NEE and FPL beginning January 1, 2018 with early adoption on January 1, 2017 permitted. The standards update may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings as of the date of initial application (modified retrospective method).  
    
  NEE and FPL are currently reviewing individual contracts within various identified revenue streams in order to determine the impact, if any, this standards update will have on their consolidated financial statements. A number of industry-specific implementation issues are still unresolved and the final resolution of certain of these issues could impact NEE's and/or FPL's current accounting policies and/or revenue recognition patterns. NEE and FPL currently anticipate adopting the standards update on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.  
    
  Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization   - The cost of additions to units of property of FPL and NEER is added to electric plant in service. In accordance with regulatory accounting, the cost of FPL's units of utility property retired, less estimated net salvage value, is charged to accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and repairs of property as well as replacements and renewals of items determined to be less than units of utility property are charged to other operations and maintenance (O M) expenses. At   December 31, 2016  , the electric generation, transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented approximately   50%  ,   11%  ,   33%   and   6%  , respectively, of FPL's gross investment in electric utility plant in service and other property. Substantially all of FPL's properties are subject to the lien of FPL's mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by FPL. A number of NEER's generation and pipeline facilities are encumbered by liens securing various financings. The net book value of NEER's assets serving as collateral was approximately   $15.5 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as amended (Recovery Act), provided for an option to elect a cash grant (convertible investment tax credits (ITCs)) for certain renewable energy property (renewable property). Convertible ITCs are recorded as a reduction in property, plant and equipment on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets and are amortized as a reduction to depreciation and amortization expense over the estimated life of the related property. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , convertible ITCs, net of amortization, were approximately   $2.1 billion   (  $147 million   at FPL) and   $1.8 billion   (  $153 million   at FPL). At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , approximately   $289 million   and   $207 million  , respectively, of such convertible ITCs are included primarily in other receivables on NEE's consolidated balance sheets.  
    
  Depreciation of FPL's electric property is primarily provided on a straight-line average remaining life basis. FPL includes in depreciation expense a provision for fossil and solar plant dismantlement, interim asset removal costs, accretion related to asset retirement obligations (see Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs below), storm recovery amortization and amortization of pre-construction costs associated with planned nuclear units recovered through a cost recovery clause. For substantially all of FPL's property, depreciation studies are typically performed and filed with the FPSC every   four   years. In accordance with the 2012 rate agreement, FPL was not required to file depreciation studies during the effective period of the agreement; therefore, previously approved depreciation rates which became effective January 1, 2010 remained in effect through December 2016. As discussed in Revenues and Rates above, the use of reserve amortization was permitted under the 2012 rate agreement. In accordance with the 2012 rate agreement, FPL recorded reserve amortization (reversal) of approximately   $13 million  ,   $(15) million   and   $(33) million   in   2016, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. The reserve is amortized as a reduction of (or reversed as an increase to) accrued asset removal costs which is reflected in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. The weighted annual composite depreciation and amortization rate for FPL's electric utility plant in service, including capitalized software, but excluding the effects of decommissioning, dismantlement and the depreciation adjustments discussed above, was approximately   3.4%  ,   3.3%   and   3.3%   for   2016, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. As part of the 2016 rate agreement, the FPSC approved new depreciation rates which became effective January 1, 2017. These new rates are expected to increase depreciation expense. The 2016 rate agreement also permits reserve amortization during the term of the agreement. See Revenues and Rates above. FPL files a twelve-month forecast with the FPSC each year which contains a regulatory ROE intended to be earned based on the best information FPL has at that time assuming normal weather. This forecast establishes a fixed targeted regulatory ROE. In order to earn the targeted regulatory ROE in each reporting period under the effective rate agreement, reserve amortization is calculated using a trailing thirteen-month average of retail rate base and capital structure in conjunction with the trailing twelve months regulatory retail base net operating income, which primarily includes the retail base portion of base and other revenues net of O M, depreciation and amortization, interest and tax expenses. In general, the net impact of these income statement line items is adjusted, in part, by reserve amortization or its reversal to earn the targeted regulatory ROE.  
    
  NEER's electric plant in service less salvage value, if any, are depreciated primarily using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , wind, nuclear, natural gas and solar plants represented approximately   62%   and   62%  ,   10%   and   11%  , less than   1%   and   3%  , and   14%   and   9%  , respectively, of NEER's depreciable electric plant in service and other property. The estimated useful lives of NEER's plants range primarily from   25   to   30   years for wind, natural gas and solar plants and from   25   to   47   years for nuclear plants. NEER reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis. NEER's oil and gas production assets, representing approximately   8%   and   7%  , respectively, of NEER's depreciable electric plant in service and other property at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , are accounted for under the successful efforts method. Depletion expenses for the acquisition of reserve rights and development costs are recognized using the unit of production method. 

76 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Nuclear Fuel   - FPL and NEER have several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel. See Note 13 - Contracts. FPL's and NEER's nuclear fuel costs are charged to fuel expense on a unit of production method. 
    
  Construction Activity   - Allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) is a non-cash item which represents the allowed cost of capital, including an ROE, used to finance construction projects. The portion of AFUDC attributable to borrowed funds is recorded as a reduction of interest expense and the remainder is recorded as other income. For FPL, FPSC rules limit the recording of AFUDC to projects that have an estimated cost in excess of   0.5%   of a utility's plant in service balance and require more than one year to complete. FPSC rules allow construction projects below the   0.5%   threshold as a component of rate base. During each of   2016, 2015 and 2014  , FPL capitalized AFUDC at a rate of   6.34%  , which amounted to approximately   $97 million  ,   $88 million   and   $50 million  , respectively. See Note 13 - Commitments. 
    
  FPL's construction work in progress includes construction materials, progress payments on major equipment contracts, engineering costs, AFUDC and other costs directly associated with the construction of various projects. Upon completion of the projects, these costs are transferred to electric utility plant in service and other property. Capitalized costs associated with construction activities are charged to O M expenses when recoverability is no longer probable.  
    
  NEER capitalizes project development costs once it is probable that such costs will be realized through the ultimate construction of a power plant or sale of development rights. At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , NEER's capitalized development costs totaled approximately   $193 million   and   $133 million  , respectively, which are included in noncurrent other assets on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. These costs include land rights and other third-party costs directly associated with the development of a new project. Upon commencement of construction, these costs either are transferred to construction work in progress or remain in other assets, depending upon the nature of the cost. Capitalized development costs are charged to O M expenses when it is no longer probable that these costs will be realized. 
    
  NEER's construction work in progress includes construction materials, progress payments on major equipment contracts, third-party engineering costs, capitalized interest and other costs directly associated with the construction and development of various projects. Interest capitalized on construction projects amounted to approximately   $107 million  ,   $100 million   and   $104 million   during   2016, 2015 and 2014  , respectively. Interest expense allocated from NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (NEECH) to NEER is based on a deemed capital structure of   70%   debt. Upon commencement of plant operation, costs associated with construction work in progress are transferred to electric plant in service and other property. 
    
  Asset Retirement Obligations   - NEE and FPL each account for asset retirement obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations (collectively, AROs) under accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if it can be reasonably estimated, with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived assets. The asset retirement cost is subsequently allocated to expense, for NEE's non-rate regulated operations, and regulatory liability, for FPL, using a systematic and rational method over the asset s estimated useful life. Changes in the ARO resulting from the passage of time are recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the liability and as accretion expense, which is included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statements of income for NEE's non-rate regulated operations, and ARO and regulatory liability, in the case of FPL. Changes resulting from revisions to the timing or amount of the original estimate of cash flows are recognized as an increase or a decrease in the asset retirement cost, or income when asset retirement cost is depleted, in the case of NEE's non-rate regulated operations, and ARO and regulatory liability, in the case of FPL. See Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs below and Note 12. 
    
  Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs   - For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues for the cost of end of life retirement and disposal of its nuclear, fossil and solar plants over the expected service life of each unit based on nuclear decommissioning and fossil and solar dismantlement studies periodically filed with the FPSC. In addition, FPL accrues for interim removal costs over the life of the related assets based on depreciation studies approved by the FPSC. As approved by the FPSC, FPL previously suspended its annual decommissioning accrual. For financial reporting purposes, FPL recognizes decommissioning and dismantlement liabilities in accordance with accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred. Any differences between expense recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amount recovered through rates are reported as a regulatory liability in accordance with regulatory accounting. See Revenues and Rates, Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization, Asset Retirement Obligations above and Note 12. 
    
  Nuclear decommissioning studies are performed at least every   five   years and are submitted to the FPSC for approval. FPL filed updated nuclear decommissioning studies with the FPSC in December 2015. These studies reflect FPL's current plans, under the operating licenses, for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 following the end of plant operation with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively, and provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 in 2043. These studies also assume that FPL will be storing spent fuel on site pending removal to a United States (U.S.) government facility. The studies indicate FPL's portion of the ultimate costs of decommissioning its   four   nuclear units, including costs associated with  
  
   77 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under a spent fuel settlement agreement, to be approximately   $7.5 billion  , or   $3.0 billion   expressed in   2016   dollars. 
    
  Restricted funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission FPL's nuclear units are included in nuclear decommissioning reserve funds, which are included in special use funds on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. Marketable securities held in the decommissioning funds are primarily classified as available for sale and carried at fair value. See Note 4. Fund earnings, consisting of dividends, interest and realized gains and losses, net of taxes, are reinvested in the funds. Fund earnings, as well as any changes in unrealized gains and losses, are not recognized in income and are reflected as a corresponding offset in the related regulatory liability accounts. FPL does not currently make contributions to the decommissioning funds, other than the reinvestment of fund earnings. During   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   fund earnings on decommissioning funds were approximately   $102 million  ,   $96 million   and   $91 million  , respectively. The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes are included in deferred income taxes. 
    
  Fossil and solar plant dismantlement studies are typically performed at least every   four   years and are submitted to the FPSC for approval. In accordance with the 2012 rate agreement, FPL was not required to file fossil and solar dismantlement studies during the effective period of the agreement; therefore, previously approved studies which became effective January 1, 2010 remained in effect through December 2016 and resulted in an annual expense of   $18 million   which is recorded in depreciation and amortization expense in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of income. As part of the 2016 rate agreement, the FPSC approved a new annual expense of   $26 million   based on FPL's 2016 fossil and solar dismantlement studies which became effective January 1, 2017. At   December 31, 2016  , FPL's portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil and solar units is approximately   $1.3 billion  , or   $480 million   expressed in   2016   dollars. 
    
  NEER records nuclear decommissioning liabilities for Seabrook Station (Seabrook), Duane Arnold Energy Center (Duane Arnold) and Point Beach Nuclear Power Plant (Point Beach) and dismantlement liabilities for its wind and solar facilities, when required in accordance with accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred. The liabilities are being accreted using the interest method through the date decommissioning or dismantlement activities are expected to be complete. See Note 12. At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , NEER's ARO, which is primarily related to nuclear decommissioning and wind and solar dismantlement, was approximately   $817 million   and   $647 million  , respectively, and was primarily determined using various internal and external data and applying a probability percentage to a variety of scenarios regarding the life of the plant and timing of decommissioning or dismantlement. NEER's portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its nuclear plants, including costs associated with spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under a spent fuel settlement agreement, is estimated to be approximately   $11.8 billion  , or   $2.0 billion   expressed in   2016   dollars. The     ultimate cost to dismantle NEER's wind and solar facilities is estimated to be approximately     $1.8 billion  . 
    
  Seabrook files a comprehensive nuclear decommissioning study with the New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee (NDFC) every   four   years; the most recent study was filed in 2015. Seabrook's decommissioning funding plan is also subject to annual review by the NDFC. Currently, there are no ongoing decommissioning funding requirements for Seabrook, Duane Arnold and Point Beach, however, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), and in the case of Seabrook, the NDFC, has the authority to require additional funding in the future. NEER's portion of Seabrook's, Duane Arnold's and Point Beach's restricted funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission these plants is included in nuclear decommissioning reserve funds, which are included in special use funds on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. Marketable securities held in the decommissioning funds are primarily classified as available for sale and carried at fair value. Market adjustments result in a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income (OCI), except for unrealized losses associated with marketable securities considered to be other than temporary, including any credit losses, which are recognized as other than temporary impairment losses on securities held in nuclear decommissioning funds in NEE's consolidated statements of income. Fund earnings are recognized in income and are reinvested in the funds. See Note 4. The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes are included in deferred income taxes. 
    
  Major Maintenance Costs   - FPL recognizes costs associated with planned major nuclear maintenance in accordance with regulatory treatment and records the related accrual as a regulatory liability. FPL expenses costs associated with planned fossil maintenance as incurred. FPL's estimated nuclear maintenance costs for each nuclear unit's next planned outage are accrued over the period from the end of the last outage to the end of the next planned outage. Any difference between the estimated and actual costs is included in O M expenses when known. The accrued liability for nuclear maintenance costs at   December 31, 2016 and 2015   totaled approximately   $65 million   and   $48 million  , respectively, and is included in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. For the years ended   December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014  , FPL recognized approximately   $89 million  ,   $90 million   and   $76 million  , respectively, in nuclear maintenance costs which are primarily included in O M expenses in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of income.  
    
  NEER uses the deferral method to account for certain planned major maintenance costs. NEER's major maintenance costs for its nuclear generation units and combustion turbines are capitalized and amortized on a unit of production method over the period from the end of the last outage to the beginning of the next planned outage. NEER's capitalized major maintenance costs, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately   $69 million   and   $97 million   at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , respectively, and are included in noncurrent other assets on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. For the years ended   December 31, 2016, 2015 and  
  
   78 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

2014  , NEER amortized approximately   $74 million  ,   $79 million   and   $81 million   in major maintenance costs which are included in O M expenses in NEE's consolidated statements of income. 
    
  Cash Equivalents   - Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 
    
  Restricted Cash   - At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , NEE had approximately   $311 million   (  $120 million   for FPL) and   $244 million   ($  75 million   for FPL), respectively, of restricted cash included in other current assets on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets, which was primarily related to margin cash collateral requirements, debt service payments and bond proceeds held for construction at FPL. Where offsetting positions exist, restricted cash related to margin cash collateral is netted against derivative instruments. See Note 3.  
    
  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   - FPL maintains an accumulated provision for uncollectible customer accounts receivable that is estimated using a percentage, derived from historical revenue and write-off trends, of the previous five months of revenue. Additional amounts are included in the provision to address specific items that are not considered in the calculation described above. NEER regularly reviews collectibility of its receivables and establishes a provision for losses estimated as a percentage of accounts receivable based on the historical bad debt write-off trends for its retail electricity provider operations and, when necessary, using the specific identification method for all other receivables. 
    
  Inventory   - FPL values materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventory using a weighted-average cost method. NEER's materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventories are carried at the lower of weighted-average cost or market, unless evidence indicates that the weighted-average cost (even if in excess of market) will be recovered with a normal profit upon sale in the ordinary course of business. 
    
  Energy Trading   - NEE provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, in certain markets and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities to optimize the value of electricity and fuel contracts, generation facilities and gas infrastructure assets, as well as to take advantage of projected favorable commodity price movements. Trading contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are accounted for at fair value and realized gains and losses from all trading contracts, including those where physical delivery is required, are recorded net for all periods presented. See Note 3. 
    
  Securitized Storm-Recovery Costs, Storm Fund and Storm Reserve   - In connection with the 2007 storm-recovery bond financing (see Note 8 - FPL), the net proceeds to FPL from the sale of the storm-recovery property were used primarily to reimburse FPL for its estimated net of tax deficiency in its storm and property insurance reserve (storm reserve) and provide for a storm and property insurance reserve fund (storm fund). Upon the issuance of the storm-recovery bonds, the storm reserve deficiency was reclassified to securitized storm-recovery costs which is recorded as a current and noncurrent regulatory asset on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. As storm-recovery charges are billed to customers (which are included in operating revenues), the securitized storm-recovery costs are amortized and included in depreciation and amortization expense in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of income. Marketable securities held in the storm fund are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. See Note 4. Fund earnings, consisting of dividends, interest and realized gains and losses, net of taxes, are reinvested in the fund. Fund earnings, as well as any changes in unrealized gains and losses, are not recognized in income and are reflected as a corresponding adjustment to the storm reserve. The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes are included in deferred income taxes. The storm fund is included in special use funds on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets and was approximately   $74 million   at   December 31, 2015  . During the fourth quarter of 2016, all available funds were withdrawn from the storm fund to pay for the storm restoration costs associated with Hurricane Hermine and Hurricane Matthew (see below regarding Hurricane Hermine and Hurricane Matthew).  
    
  FPL was impacted by Hurricane Hermine in September 2016 and Hurricane Matthew in October 2016. Hurricane Matthew resulted in damage in much of FPL's service territory and caused approximately   1.2 million   of FPL's customers to lose electrical service. Damage to FPL property was primarily limited to the transmission and distribution systems. Storm restoration costs eligible for recovery for both events totaled approximately   $315 million  , the majority of which relates to Hurricane Matthew. Prior to these storms, FPL's storm and property insurance reserve had the capacity to absorb approximately   $112 million   in additional storm restoration costs (  $20 million   of which was absorbed by Hurricane Hermine). At December 31, 2016, FPL's storm and property insurance reserve was fully depleted and storm restoration costs expected to be recoverable from customers exceeded the balance of the storm reserve by approximately   $203 million  . This deficiency has been deferred and recorded as a regulatory asset on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. In February 2017, the FPSC approved FPL s request to begin recovering eligible storm restoration costs over the reserve amount, plus approximately   $117 million   to replenish the reserve to the level authorized by the 2012 rate agreement. The recovery will take place through an interim surcharge that applies for a 12-month period starting March 1, 2017, with the amount collected subject to refund based on an FPSC prudence review. 
    
  The replenished reserve will not initially be reflected on NEE s and FPL s consolidated balance sheets because the associated regulatory asset does not meet the specific recognition criteria under the accounting guidance for certain regulated entities. As a result, as the storm surcharge is billed to customers (which is recorded as operating revenues), the storm reserve will be recognized  
  
   79 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

as a regulatory liability and charged to depreciation and amortization expense in NEE s and FPL s consolidated statements of income. 
    
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets   -   NEE evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.     An impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds the asset's fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate.  
    
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   - NEE's goodwill and other intangible assets are as follows: 

NEE's goodwill relates to various acquisitions which were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Other intangible assets subject to amortization are amortized, primarily on a straight-line basis, over their estimated useful lives. Amortization expense was approximately   $35 million  ,   $17 million   and   $15 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014  , respectively, and is expected to be approximately $  31 million  ,   $46 million  ,   $39 million  ,   $26 million   and   $19 million   for 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.  
    
  Goodwill and other intangible assets are primarily included in noncurrent other assets on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. Goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization are assessed for impairment at least annually by applying a fair value-based analysis. Other intangible assets subject to amortization are periodically reviewed when impairment indicators are present to assess recoverability from future operations using undiscounted future cash flows. 
    
  Pension Plan   - NEE allocates net periodic pension income to its subsidiaries based on the pensionable earnings of the subsidiaries' employees. Accounting guidance requires recognition of the funded status of the pension plan in the balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized in other comprehensive income within shareholders' equity in the year in which the changes occur. Since NEE is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, this accounting guidance is reflected at NEE and not allocated to the subsidiaries. The portion of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs or credits that are estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic (income) cost in future periods and that otherwise would be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) are classified as regulatory assets and liabilities at NEE in accordance with regulatory treatment. 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation   - NEE accounts for stock-based payment transactions based on grant-date fair value. Compensation costs for awards with graded vesting are recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. See Note 10 - Stock-Based Compensation. 
    
  Income Taxes   - Deferred income taxes are recognized on all significant temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are presented as noncurrent on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. In connection with the tax sharing agreement between NEE and certain of its subsidiaries, the income tax provision at each applicable subsidiary reflects the use of the "separate return method," except that tax benefits that could not be used on a separate return basis, but are used on the consolidated tax return, are recorded by the subsidiary that generated the tax benefits. Any remaining consolidated  
  
   80 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

income tax benefits or expenses are recorded at the corporate level. Included in other regulatory assets and other regulatory liabilities on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets is the revenue equivalent of the difference in deferred income taxes computed under accounting rules, as compared to regulatory accounting rules. The net regulatory asset totaled $  289 million   (  $266 million   for FPL) and $  283 million   (  $268 million   for FPL) at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, and is being amortized in accordance with the regulatory treatment over the estimated lives of the assets or liabilities for which the deferred tax amount was initially recognized. 
    
  Production tax credits (PTCs) are recognized as wind energy is generated and sold based on a per kWh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes and are recorded as a reduction of current income taxes payable, unless limited by tax law in which instance they are recorded as deferred tax assets. NEER recognizes ITCs as a reduction to income tax expense when the related energy property is placed into service. FPL recognizes ITCs as a reduction to income tax expense over the depreciable life of the related energy property. At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , FPL s accumulated deferred ITCs were approximately $  123 million   and $  3 million  , respectively, and are included in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. NEE and FPL record a deferred income tax benefit created by the convertible ITCs on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of renewable property. For NEER, this deferred income tax benefit is recorded in income tax expense in the year that the renewable property is placed in service. For FPL, this deferred income tax benefit is offset by a regulatory liability, which is amortized as a reduction of depreciation expense over the approximate lives of the related renewable property in accordance with the regulatory treatment. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , the net deferred income tax benefits associated with FPL's convertible ITCs were approximately $  46 million   and $  48 million  , respectively, and are included in noncurrent regulatory assets and noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 
    
  A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. NEE recognizes interest income (expense) related to unrecognized tax benefits (liabilities) in interest income and interest expense, respectively, net of the amount deferred at FPL. At FPL, the offset to accrued interest receivable (payable) on income taxes is classified as a regulatory liability (regulatory asset) which will be amortized to income (expense) over a five-year period upon settlement in accordance with regulatory treatment. All tax positions taken by NEE in its income tax returns that are recognized in the financial statements must satisfy a more-likely-than-not threshold. NEE and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states, the most significant of which is Florida, and certain foreign jurisdictions. Federal tax liabilities, with the exception of certain refund claims, are effectively settled for all years prior to 2013. State and foreign tax liabilities, which have varied statutes of limitations regarding additional assessments, are generally effectively settled for years prior to 2009. At   December 31, 2016  , NEE had unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $  40 million   that, if disallowed, could impact the annual effective income tax rate. The amounts of unrecognized tax benefits and related interest accruals may change within the next 12 months; however, NEE and FPL do not expect these changes to have a significant impact on NEE s or FPL s financial statements. See Note 5. 
    
  Sale of Differential Membership Interests   - Certain subsidiaries of NEER sold their Class B membership interest in entities that have ownership interests in wind and solar facilities, with generating capacity totaling approximately   6,847   MW and   374   MW, respectively,  at   December 31, 2016  , to third-party investors. In exchange for the cash received, the holders of the Class B membership interests will receive a portion of the economic attributes of the facilities, including income tax attributes, for variable periods. The transactions are not treated as a sale under the accounting rules and the proceeds received are deferred and recorded as a liability in deferral related to differential membership interests - VIEs on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. The deferred amount is being recognized in benefits associated with differential membership interests - net in NEE's consolidated statements of income as the Class B members receive their portion of the economic attributes. NEE continues to operate and manage the wind and solar facilities, and consolidates the entities that own the wind and solar facilities. 
    
  Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)   - An entity is considered to be a VIE when its total equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, or its equity investors, as a group, lack the characteristics of having a controlling financial interest. A reporting company is required to consolidate a VIE as its primary beneficiary when it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. NEE and FPL evaluate whether an entity is a VIE whenever reconsideration events as defined by the accounting guidance occur. See Note 8. 
    
  Leases   - In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update which requires, among other things, that lessees recognize a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments; and a right-of-use asset for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases). The standards update will be effective for NEE and FPL beginning January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. Lessees and lessors must apply a modified retrospective approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. NEE and FPL are currently reviewing their portfolio of contracts and are in the process of determining the proper application of the standards update to these contracts in order to determine the impact the adoption will have on their consolidated financial statements, including timing of adoption.   
    
  Merger Termination   - In 2014, NEE and Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the HEI merger agreement) pursuant to which Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. (HECO), HEI's wholly owned electric utility subsidiary, was to become a wholly owned subsidiary of NEE. In July 2016, the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission issued an order dismissing  
  
   81 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

NEE's and HECO's merger application and, as a result, NEE terminated the HEI merger agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the HEI merger agreement, NEE paid HEI a termination fee of   $90 million   plus reimbursement to HEI for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the HEI merger agreement of   $5 million  , which is included in merger-related expenses in NEE's consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2016. 
    
  Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale -   In April 2016, a subsidiary of NEER completed the sale of its ownership interest in merchant natural gas generation facilities located in Texas with a total generating capacity of   2,884   MW for net cash proceeds of approximately   $456 million  , after transaction costs and working capital adjustments. A NEER affiliate continued to operate the facilities included in the sale through September 2016. In connection with the sale and the related consolidating state income tax effects, a gain of approximately   $254 million   (  $106 million   after tax) was recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income for the year ended   December 31, 2016   and is included in losses (gains) on disposal of assets - net. The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities related to the facilities that were classified as held for sale on NEE's consolidated balance sheets as of   December 31, 2015   primarily represent property, plant and equipment and the related long-term debt. 
    
  In 2016, a subsidiary of NEER initiated a plan, received internal authorization and completed the sale of its ownership interest in  natural gas generation facilities located primarily in Pennsylvania with a total generating capacity of   840   MW for net cash proceeds of approximately   $260 million  , after transaction costs and working capital adjustments. In connection with the sale and the related consolidating state income tax effects, a gain of approximately   $191 million   ($  113 million   after tax) was recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income for the year ended   December 31, 2016   and is included in losses (gains) on disposal of assets - net. 
    
  In January 2017, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NEE completed the sale of its membership interests in its fiber-optic telecommunications business (FPL FiberNet) for net cash proceeds of approximately   $1.1 billion  , after repayment of   $370 million   of related long-term debt. In connection with the sale and the related consolidating state income tax effects, a gain of approximately   $1.1 billion   (approximately   $700 million   after tax) will be recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income during the three-months ended March 31, 2017. The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities related to FPL FiberNet that were classified as held for sale on NEE's consolidated balance sheets as of   December 31, 2016   primarily represent property, plant and equipment and the related long-term debt. 

2. Employee Retirement Benefits 
    
  Employee Pension Plan and Other Benefits Plans   - NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. NEE also has a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP), which includes a non-qualified supplemental defined benefit pension component that provides benefits to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, and sponsors a contributory postretirement plan for other benefits for retirees of NEE and its subsidiaries meeting certain eligibility requirements. The total accrued benefit cost of the SERP and postretirement plans is approximately   $325 million   (  $222 million   for FPL) and   $321 million   (  $230 million   for FPL) at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , respectively. 
    
  Pension Plan Assets, Benefit Obligations and Funded Status - The changes in assets, benefit obligations and the funded status of the pension plan are as follows: 

_________________________ 
   
   82 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

NEE's unrecognized amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) yet to be recognized as components of prepaid pension benefit costs are as follows: 

NEE's unrecognized amounts included in regulatory assets yet to be recognized as components of net prepaid pension benefit costs are as follows: 

The following table provides the assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation for the pension plan. These rates are used in determining net periodic income in the following year. 

_________________________ 
           (a) 
    Beginning in 2017, NEE changed its method of estimating the interest cost component of net periodic benefit costs and will use a full yield curve approach by applying a specific spot rate along the yield curve rather than a single weighted-average discount rate. Such change is not expected to have a material impact on the pension and postretirement plans' net periodic benefit costs. 
       
  NEE's investment policy for the pension plan recognizes the benefit of protecting the plan's funded status, thereby avoiding the necessity of future employer contributions. Its broad objectives are to achieve a high rate of total return with a prudent level of risk taking while maintaining sufficient liquidity and diversification to avoid large losses and preserve capital over the long term. 
    
  The NEE pension plan fund's current target asset allocation, which is expected to be reached over time, is   45%   equity investments,   32%   fixed income investments,   13%   alternative investments and   10%   convertible securities. The pension fund's investment strategy emphasizes traditional investments, broadly diversified across the global equity and fixed income markets, using a combination of different investment styles and vehicles. The pension fund's equity and fixed income holdings consist of both directly held securities as well as commingled investment arrangements such as common and collective trusts, pooled separate accounts, registered investment companies and limited partnerships. The pension fund's convertible security assets are principally direct holdings of convertible securities and include a convertible security oriented limited partnership. The pension fund's alternative investments consist primarily of private equity and real estate oriented investments in limited partnerships as well as absolute return oriented limited partnerships that use a broad range of investment strategies on a global basis. 

83 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The fair value measurements of NEE's pension plan assets by fair value hierarchy level are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    See Note 4 for discussion of fair value measurement techniques and inputs. 
              (b) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  370 million  . 
              (c) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  261 million  . 
              (d) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  67 million  . 
              (e) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  31 million  . 
              (f) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  282 million  . 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    See Note 4 for discussion of fair value measurement techniques and inputs. 
              (b) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  384 million  . 
              (c) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  249 million  . 
              (d) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  68 million  . 
              (e) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  23 million  . 
              (f) 
    Includes foreign investments of $  283 million  . 

84 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Expected Cash Flows - The following table provides information about benefit payments expected to be paid by the pension plan for each of the following calendar years (in millions): 

Net Periodic (Income) Cost - The components of net periodic (income) cost for the plans are as follows: 

Other Comprehensive Income - The components of net periodic income (cost) recognized in OCI for the pension plan are as follows: 

Regulatory Assets (Liabilities) - The components of net periodic (income) cost recognized during the year in regulatory assets (liabilities) for the pension plan are as follows: 

The assumptions used to determine net periodic income for the pension plan are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    In developing the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for its pension plan, NEE evaluated input, including other qualitative and quantitative factors, from its actuaries and consultants, as well as information available in the marketplace. NEE considered different models, capital market return assumptions and historical returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its pension fund. NEE also considered its pension fund's historical compounded returns. 

85 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Employee Contribution Plan   - NEE offers an employee retirement savings plan which allows eligible participants to contribute a percentage of qualified compensation through payroll deductions. NEE makes matching contributions to participants' accounts. Defined contribution expense pursuant to this plan was approximately $  52 million  , $  63 million   and $  59 million   for NEE ($  32 million  , $  40 million   and $  37 million   for FPL) for the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively.  

3. Derivative Instruments 
    
  NEE and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk associated primarily with outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings, and to optimize the value of NEER's power generation and gas infrastructure assets. 
    
  With respect to commodities related to NEE's competitive energy business, NEER employs risk management procedures to conduct its activities related to optimizing the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets, providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, and engaging in power and gas marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements and changes in the expected volatility of prices in the energy markets. These risk management activities involve the use of derivative instruments executed within prescribed limits to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices. Transactions in derivative instruments are executed on recognized exchanges or via the over-the-counter (OTC) markets, depending on the most favorable credit terms and market execution factors. For NEER's power generation and gas infrastructure assets, derivative instruments are used to hedge all or a portion of the expected output of these assets. These hedges are designed to reduce the effect of adverse changes in the wholesale forward commodity markets associated with NEER's power generation and gas infrastructure assets. With regard to full energy and capacity requirements services, NEER is required to vary the quantity of energy and related services based on the load demands of the customers served. For this type of transaction, derivative instruments are used to hedge the anticipated electricity quantities required to serve these customers and reduce the effect of unfavorable changes in the forward energy markets. Additionally, NEER takes positions in energy markets based on differences between actual forward market levels and management's view of fundamental market conditions, including supply/demand imbalances, changes in traditional flows of energy, changes in short- and long-term weather patterns and anticipated regulatory and legislative outcomes. NEER uses derivative instruments to realize value from these market dislocations, subject to strict risk management limits around market, operational and credit exposure. 
    
  Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market, are recorded on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability measured at fair value. At FPL, substantially all changes in the derivatives' fair value are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel and purchased power cost recovery clause (fuel clause). For NEE's non-rate regulated operations, predominantly NEER, essentially all changes in the derivatives' fair value for power purchases and sales, fuel sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating revenues; fuel purchases used in the production of electricity are recognized in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees' related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in NEE's consolidated statements of income. Settlement gains and losses are included within the line items in the consolidated statements of income to which they relate. Transactions for which physical delivery is deemed not to have occurred are presented on a net basis in the consolidated statements of income. For commodity derivatives, NEE believes that, where offsetting positions exist at the same location for the same time, the transactions are considered to have been netted and therefore physical delivery has been deemed not to have occurred for financial reporting purposes. Settlements related to derivative instruments are primarily recognized in net cash provided by operating activities in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of cash flows. 
    
  In January 2016, NEE discontinued hedge accounting for its cash flow and fair value hedges related to interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments and, therefore, all changes in the derivatives' fair value, as well as the transaction gain or loss on foreign denominated debt, are recognized in interest expense in NEE's consolidated statements of income. In addition, for the year ended   December 31, 2016  , NEE reclassified approximately   $18 million   (  $11 million   after tax), respectively, from AOCI to interest expense primarily because it became probable that a related future transaction being hedged would not occur. At   December 31, 2016  , NEE's AOCI included amounts related to the discontinued interest rate cash flow hedges with expiration dates through   March 2035   and foreign currency cash flow hedges with expiration dates through   September 2030  . Approximately   $80 million   of net losses included in AOCI at   December 31, 2016   is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months as the principal and/or interest payments are made. Such amounts assume no change in scheduled principal payments.  

86 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments   - The tables below present NEE's and FPL's gross derivative positions at   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2015  , as required by disclosure rules. However, the majority of the underlying contracts are subject to master netting agreements and generally would not be contractually settled on a gross basis. Therefore, the tables below also present the derivative positions on a net basis, which reflect the offsetting of positions of certain transactions within the portfolio, the contractual ability to settle contracts under master netting arrangements and the netting of margin cash collateral (see Note 4 - Recurring Fair Value Measurements for netting information), as well as the location of the net derivative position on the consolidated balance sheets. 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Reflects the netting of approximately   $96 million   in margin cash collateral received from counterparties. 
              (b) 
    Reflects the netting of approximately   $71 million   in margin cash collateral received from counterparties. 

87 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Reflects the netting of approximately   $279 million   in margin cash collateral received from counterparties. 
              (b) 
    Reflects the netting of approximately   $151 million   in margin cash collateral received from counterparties. 
              (c) 
    Reflects the netting of approximately   $46 million   in margin cash collateral paid to counterparties. 
              (d) 
    Reflects the netting of approximately   $13 million   in margin cash collateral paid to counterparties. 
       
  At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , NEE had approximately   $5 million   and   $27 million   (none at FPL), respectively, in margin cash collateral received from counterparties that was not offset against derivative assets in the above presentation. These amounts are included in current other liabilities on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , NEE had approximately   $129 million   and   $116 million   (none at FPL), respectively, in margin cash collateral paid to counterparties that was not offset against derivative assets or liabilities in the above presentation. These amounts are included in current other assets on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. 
    
  Income Statement Impact of Derivative Instruments   - Losses related to NEE's cash flow hedges, which were previously designated as hedging instruments, are recorded in NEE's consolidated financial statements (none at FPL) as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Included in interest expense. 
              (b) 
    For 2015 and 2014, losses of approximately   $11 million   and   $8 million  , respectively, are included in interest expense and the balances are included in other - net. 

88 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Gains (losses) related to NEE's derivatives not designated as hedging instruments are recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income as follows: 

______________________ 
     
  Notional Volumes of Derivative Instruments   - The following table represents net notional volumes associated with derivative instruments that are required to be reported at fair value in NEE's and FPL's consolidated financial statements. The table includes significant volumes of transactions that have minimal exposure to commodity price changes because they are variably priced agreements. These volumes are only an indication of the commodity exposure that is managed through the use of derivatives. They do not represent net physical asset positions or non-derivative positions and their hedges, nor do they represent NEE's and FPL's net economic exposure, but only the net notional derivative positions that fully or partially hedge the related asset positions. NEE and FPL had derivative commodity contracts for the following net notional volumes: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Megawatt-hours 
              (b) 
    One million British thermal units 
       
  At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , NEE had interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling approximately   $15.1 billion   and   $8.3 billion  , respectively, and foreign currency contracts with notional amounts totaling approximately   $705 million   and   $715 million  , respectively. 
    
  Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features   - Certain derivative instruments contain credit-risk-related contingent features including, among other things, the requirement to maintain an investment grade credit rating from specified credit rating agencies and certain financial ratios, as well as credit-related cross-default and material adverse change triggers. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , the aggregate fair value of NEE's derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a liability position was approximately   $1.3 billion   (  $5 million   for FPL) and   $2.2 billion   (  $224 million   for FPL), respectively. 
    
  If the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these derivative agreements were triggered, certain subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, could be required to post collateral or settle contracts according to contractual terms which generally allow netting of contracts in offsetting positions. Certain derivative contracts contain multiple types of credit-related triggers. To the extent these contracts contain a credit ratings downgrade trigger, the maximum exposure is included in the following credit ratings collateral posting requirements. If FPL's and NEECH's credit ratings were downgraded to BBB/Baa2 (a two level downgrade for FPL and a one level downgrade for NEECH from the current lowest applicable rating), applicable NEE subsidiaries would be required to post collateral such that the total posted collateral would be approximately   $110 million   (  none   at FPL) and   $165 million   (  $20 million   at FPL) as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. If FPL's and NEECH's credit ratings were downgraded to below investment grade, applicable NEE subsidiaries would be required to post additional collateral such that the total posted collateral would be approximately   $990 million   (  $10 million   at FPL) and   $1.4 billion   (  $185 million   at FPL) as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. Some derivative contracts do not contain credit ratings downgrade triggers, but do contain provisions that require certain financial measures be maintained and/or have credit-related cross-default triggers. In the event these provisions were triggered, applicable  
  
   89 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

NEE subsidiaries could be required to post additional collateral of up to approximately   $225 million   (  $115 million   at FPL) and   $270 million   (  $120 million   at FPL) as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  Collateral related to derivatives may be posted in the form of cash or credit support in the normal course of business. At   December 31, 2016  , applicable NEE subsidiaries have posted approximately   $1 million   (  none   at FPL) in cash and   $30 million   (  none   at FPL) in the form of letters of credit which could be applied toward the collateral requirements described above. At   December 31, 2015  , applicable NEE subsidiaries have posted approximately   $123 million   (  $3 million   at FPL) in the form of letters of credit which could be applied toward the collateral requirements described above. FPL and NEECH have credit facilities generally in excess of the collateral requirements described above that would be available to support, among other things, derivative activities. Under the terms of the credit facilities, maintenance of a specific credit rating is not a condition to drawing on these credit facilities, although there are other conditions to drawing on these credit facilities. 
    
  Additionally, some contracts contain certain adequate assurance provisions where a counterparty may demand additional collateral based on subjective events and/or conditions. Due to the subjective nature of these provisions, NEE and FPL are unable to determine an exact value for these items and they are not included in any of the quantitative disclosures above. 

4. Fair Value Measurements 
    
  The fair value of assets and liabilities are determined using either unadjusted quoted prices in active markets (Level 1) or pricing inputs that are observable (Level 2) whenever that information is available and using unobservable inputs (Level 3) to estimate fair value only when relevant observable inputs are not available. NEE and FPL use several different valuation techniques to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities, relying primarily on the market approach of using prices and other market information for identical and/or comparable assets and liabilities for those assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. NEE's and FPL's assessment of the significance of any particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect placement within the fair value hierarchy levels. Non-performance risk, including the consideration of a credit valuation adjustment, is also considered in the determination of fair value for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value. 
    
  Cash Equivalents     and Restricted Cash   - NEE primarily holds investments in money market funds. The fair value of these funds is estimated using a market approach based on current observable market prices. 
    
  Special Use Funds and Other Investments -   NEE and FPL hold primarily debt and equity securities directly, as well as indirectly through commingled funds. Substantially all directly held equity securities are valued at their quoted market prices. For directly held debt securities, multiple prices and price types are obtained from pricing vendors whenever possible, which enables cross-provider validations. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue of each security. Commingled funds, which are similar to mutual funds, are maintained by banks or investment companies and hold certain investments in accordance with a stated set of objectives. The fair value of commingled funds is primarily derived from the quoted prices in active markets of the underlying securities. Because the fund shares are offered to a limited group of investors, they are not considered to be traded in an active market. 
    
  Derivative Instruments   - NEE and FPL measure the fair value of commodity contracts using a combination of market and income approaches utilizing prices observed on commodities exchanges and in the OTC markets, or through the use of industry-standard valuation techniques, such as option modeling or discounted cash flows techniques, incorporating both observable and unobservable valuation inputs. The resulting measurements are the best estimate of fair value as represented by the transfer of the asset or liability through an orderly transaction in the marketplace at the measurement date. 
    
  Most exchange-traded derivative assets and liabilities are valued directly using unadjusted quoted prices. For exchange-traded derivative assets and liabilities where the principal market is deemed to be inactive based on average daily volumes and open interest, the measurement is established using settlement prices from the exchanges, and therefore considered to be valued using other observable inputs. 
    
  NEE, through its subsidiaries, including FPL, also enters into OTC commodity contract derivatives. The majority of these contracts are transacted at liquid trading points, and the prices for these contracts are verified using quoted prices in active markets from exchanges, brokers or pricing services for similar contracts. 
    
  NEE, through NEER, also enters into full requirements contracts, which, in most cases, meet the definition of derivatives and are measured at fair value. These contracts typically have one or more inputs that are not observable and are significant to the valuation of the contract. In addition, certain exchange and non-exchange traded derivative options at NEE have one or more significant inputs that are not observable, and are valued using industry-standard option models. 
    
  In all cases where NEE and FPL use significant unobservable inputs for the valuation of a commodity contract, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. The primary input to the valuation models for commodity contracts is the forward commodity curve for the respective instruments. Other inputs include, but are not limited to, assumptions about market liquidity, volatility, correlation and contract duration as more fully described below in Significant Unobservable Inputs Used in Recurring Fair Value Measurements. In instances where the reference markets are deemed to be inactive or do not have transactions for a similar contract, the derivative assets and liabilities may be valued using significant other  
  
   90 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

observable inputs and potentially significant unobservable inputs. In such instances, the valuation for these contracts is established using techniques including extrapolation from or interpolation between actively traded contracts, or estimated basis adjustments from liquid trading points. NEE and FPL regularly evaluate and validate the inputs used to determine fair value by a number of methods, consisting of various market price verification procedures, including the use of pricing services and multiple broker quotes to support the market price of the various commodities. In all cases where there are assumptions and models used to generate inputs for valuing derivative assets and liabilities, the review and verification of the assumptions, models and changes to the models are undertaken by individuals that are independent of those responsible for estimating fair value. 
    
  NEE uses interest rate contracts and foreign currency contracts to mitigate and adjust interest rate and foreign currency exchange exposure related primarily to certain outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings when deemed appropriate based on market conditions or when required by financing agreements. NEE estimates the fair value of these derivatives using an income approach based on a discounted cash flows valuation technique utilizing the net amount of estimated future cash inflows and outflows related to the agreements. 
    
  Recurring Fair Value Measurements   - NEE's and FPL's financial assets and liabilities and other fair value measurements made on a recurring basis by fair value hierarchy level are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes the effect of the contractual ability to settle contracts under master netting arrangements and the netting of margin cash collateral payments and receipts. NEE and FPL also have contract settlement receivable and payable balances that are subject to the master netting arrangements but are not offset within the consolidated balance sheets and are recorded in customer receivables - net and accounts payable, respectively. 
              (b) 
    Includes restricted cash of approximately   $164 million   (  $120 million   for FPL) in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. 
              (c) 
    Excludes investments accounted for under the equity method and loans not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. See Fair Value of Financial Instruments Recorded at Other than Fair Value below. 
              (d) 
    Primarily invested in commingled funds whose underlying securities would be Level 1 if those securities were held directly by NEE or FPL. 
              (e) 
    See Note 3 - Fair Value of Derivative Instruments for a reconciliation of net derivatives to NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 

91 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes the effect of the contractual ability to settle contracts under master netting arrangements and the netting of margin cash collateral payments and receipts. NEE and FPL also have contract settlement receivable and payable balances that are subject to the master netting arrangements but are not offset within the consolidated balance sheets and are recorded in customer receivables - net and accounts payable, respectively. 
              (b) 
    Includes restricted cash of approximately   $61 million   (  $36 million   for FPL) in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. 
              (c) 
    Excludes investments accounted for under the equity method and loans not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. See Fair Value of Financial Instruments Recorded at Other than Fair Value below. 
              (d) 
    Primarily invested in commingled funds whose underlying securities would be Level 1 if those securities were held directly by NEE or FPL. 
              (e) 
    See Note 3 - Fair Value of Derivative Instruments for a reconciliation of net derivatives to NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 
       
  Significant Unobservable Inputs Used in Recurring Fair Value Measurements   - The valuation of certain commodity contracts requires the use of significant unobservable inputs. All forward price, implied volatility, implied correlation and interest rate inputs used in the valuation of such contracts are directly based on third-party market data, such as broker quotes and exchange settlements, when that data is available. If third-party market data is not available, then industry standard methodologies are used to develop inputs that maximize the use of relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Observable inputs, including some forward prices, implied volatilities and interest rates used for determining fair value are updated daily to reflect the best available market information. Unobservable inputs which are related to observable inputs, such as illiquid portions of forward price or volatility curves, are updated daily as well, using industry standard techniques such as interpolation and extrapolation, combining observable forward inputs supplemented by historical market and other relevant data. Other unobservable inputs, such as implied correlations, customer migration rates from full requirements contracts and some implied volatility curves, are modeled using proprietary models based on historical data and industry standard techniques. 
    
  All price, volatility, correlation and customer migration inputs used in valuation are subject to validation by the Trading Risk Management group. The Trading Risk Management group performs a risk management function responsible for assessing credit, market and operational risk impact, reviewing valuation methodology and modeling, confirming transactions, monitoring approval processes and developing and monitoring trading limits. The Trading Risk Management group is separate from the transacting group. For markets where independent third-party data is readily available, validation is conducted daily by directly reviewing this  
  
   92 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

market data against inputs utilized by the transacting group, and indirectly by reviewing daily risk reports. For markets where independent third-party data is not readily available, additional analytical reviews are performed on at least a quarterly basis. These analytical reviews are designed to ensure that all price and volatility curves used for fair valuing transactions are adequately validated each quarter, and are reviewed and approved by the Trading Risk Management group. In addition, other valuation assumptions such as implied correlations and customer migration rates are reviewed and approved by the Trading Risk Management group on a periodic basis. Newly created models used in the valuation process are also subject to testing and approval by the Trading Risk Management group prior to use and established models are reviewed annually, or more often as needed, by the Trading Risk Management group. 
    
  On a monthly basis, the Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, meets with representatives from the Trading Risk Management group and the transacting group to discuss NEE's and FPL's energy risk profile and operations, to review risk reports and to discuss fair value issues as necessary. The EMC develops guidelines required for an appropriate risk management control infrastructure, which includes implementation and monitoring of compliance with Trading Risk Management policy. The EMC executes its risk management responsibilities through direct oversight and delegation of its responsibilities to the Trading Risk Management group, as well as to other corporate and business unit personnel. 
    
  The significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of NEE's commodity contracts categorized as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy at   December 31, 2016   are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Applies only to full requirements contracts. 
       
  The sensitivity of NEE's fair value measurements to increases (decreases) in the significant unobservable inputs is as follows: 
                       Significant Unobservable Input 
      
    Position 
      
    Impact on 
  Fair Value Measurement 
      Forward price 
      
    Purchase power/gas 
      
    Increase (decrease) 

Sell power/gas 
      
    Decrease (increase) 
      Implied correlations 
      
    Purchase option 
      
    Decrease (increase) 

Sell option 
      
    Increase (decrease) 
      Implied volatilities 
      
    Purchase option 
      
    Increase (decrease) 

Sell option 
      
    Decrease (increase) 
      Customer migration rate 
      
    Sell power   (a)  
      
    Decrease (increase) 

(a) 
    Assumes the contract is in a gain position. 
       
  In addition, the fair value measurement of interest rate contract net liabilities related to the solar projects in Spain of approximately   $110 million   at   December 31, 2016   includes a significant credit valuation adjustment. The credit valuation adjustment, considered an unobservable input, reflects management's assessment of non-performance risk of the subsidiaries related to the solar projects in Spain that are party to the contracts. See Note 11 - Spain Solar Projects Debt Restructuring for further discussion. 

93 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The reconciliation of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are based on significant unobservable inputs is as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    For the year ended   December 31, 2016  ,   $397 million   of realized and unrealized gains are reflected in the consolidated statements of income in operating revenues and the balance is reflected in interest expense. For the year ended   December 31, 2015  ,   $462 million   of realized and unrealized gains are reflected in the consolidated statements of income in operating revenues and the balance is primarily reflected in interest expense. For the year   December 31, 2014  ,   $79 million   of realized and unrealized losses are reflected in the consolidated statements of income in interest expense and the balance is primarily reflected in operating revenues.  
              (b) 
    Transfers into Level 3 were a result of decreased observability of market data. Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 were a result of increased observability of market data and, in 2016, a favorable change to a credit valuation adjustment. NEE's and FPL's policy is to recognize all transfers at the beginning of the reporting period. 
        
  Contingent Consideration   - NEE recorded a liability related to a contingent holdback as part of the 2015 acquisition of a portfolio of seven long-term contracted natural gas pipeline assets located in Texas (Texas pipelines). See Note 7 - Texas Pipeline Business. 
    
  Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements -   In 2013, NEER initiated a plan and received internal authorization to pursue the sale of its ownership interests in oil-fired generation plants located in Maine (Maine fossil), which resulted in the recording of a loss during that period which was reflected within discontinued operations at NEE. In 2014, NEER decided not to pursue the sale of Maine fossil due to the divergence between the achievable sales price and management's view of the assets' value, which increased as a result of significant market changes. Accordingly, the Maine fossil assets were written-up to management's current estimate of fair value resulting in a gain of approximately $  21 million   ($  12 million   after tax) which is included as a separate line item in NEE's consolidated statements of income. The fair value measurement (Level 3) was estimated using an income approach based primarily on the updated capacity revenue forecasts.  

94 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments Recorded at Other than Fair Value   - The carrying amounts of cash equivalents, commercial paper and other short-term debt approximate their fair values. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of other financial instruments recorded at other than fair value are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Primarily represents investments accounted for under the equity method and loans not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
              (b) 
    Primarily classified as held to maturity. Fair values are primarily estimated using an income approach utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique based on certain observable yield curves and indices considering the credit profile of the borrower (Level 3). Notes receivable bear interest primarily at fixed rates and mature by   2029  . Notes receivable are considered impaired and placed in non-accrual status when it becomes probable that all amounts due cannot be collected in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement. The assessment to place notes receivable in non-accrual status considers various credit indicators, such as credit ratings and market-related information.  
              (c) 
    Excludes debt totaling   $373 million   and   $938 million  , respectively, reflected in liabilities associated with assets held for sale on NEE's consolidated balance sheets for which the carrying amount approximates fair value. See Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale. 
              (d) 
    As of   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , for NEE, approximately   $29,804 million   and   $18,031 million  , respectively, is estimated using a market approach based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues (Level 2); the balance is estimated using an income approach utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique, considering the current credit profile of the debtor (Level 3). For FPL, primarily estimated using quoted market prices for the same or similar issues (Level 2). 
       
  Special Use Funds   - The special use funds noted above and those carried at fair value (see Recurring Fair Value Measurements above) consist of NEE's and FPL's nuclear decommissioning fund assets of   $5,434 million   and   $5,064 million   at   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , respectively, (  $3,665 million   and   $3,430 million  , respectively, for FPL) and, in 2015, FPL's storm fund assets of   $74 million  . The investments held in the special use funds consist of equity and debt securities which are primarily classified as available for sale and carried at estimated fair value. The amortized cost of debt and equity securities is approximately $  1,820 million   and $  1,543 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016   and $  1,823 million   and $  1,505 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015   ($  1,373 million   and $  764 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016   and $  1,409 million   and $  732 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015   for FPL). For FPL's special use funds, consistent with regulatory treatment, changes in fair value, including any other than temporary impairment losses, result in a corresponding adjustment to the related regulatory liability accounts. For NEE's non-rate regulated operations, changes in fair value result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI, except for unrealized losses associated with marketable securities considered to be other than temporary, including any credit losses, which are recognized as other than temporary impairment losses on securities held in nuclear decommissioning funds in NEE's consolidated statements of income. Debt securities included in the nuclear decommissioning funds have a weighted-average maturity at   December 31, 2016   of approximately   nine   years at both NEE and FPL. The cost of securities sold is determined using the specific identification method. 
    
  Realized gains and losses and proceeds from the sale or maturity of available for sale securities are as follows: 

95 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The unrealized gains on available for sale securities are as follows: 

The unrealized losses on available for sale debt securities and the fair value of available for sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Unrealized losses on available for sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months at   December 31, 2016 and 2015   were not material to NEE or FPL. 
       
  Regulations issued by the FERC and the NRC provide general risk management guidelines to protect nuclear decommissioning funds and to allow such funds to earn a reasonable return. The FERC regulations prohibit, among other investments, investments in any securities of NEE or its subsidiaries, affiliates or associates, excluding investments tied to market indices or mutual funds. Similar restrictions applicable to the decommissioning funds for NEER's nuclear plants are included in the NRC operating licenses for those facilities or in NRC regulations applicable to NRC licensees not in cost-of-service environments. With respect to the decommissioning fund for Seabrook, decommissioning fund contributions and withdrawals are also regulated by the NDFC pursuant to New Hampshire law. 
    
  The nuclear decommissioning reserve funds are managed by investment managers who must comply with the guidelines of NEE and FPL and the rules of the applicable regulatory authorities. The funds' assets are invested giving consideration to taxes, liquidity, risk, diversification and other prudent investment objectives. 
    
  Financial Instruments Accounting Standards Update   - In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update which modifies current guidance for financial instruments. The standards update requires that equity investments (except investments accounted for under the equity method and investments that are consolidated) be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income and provides an option for those equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values to be measured at cost minus impairment (plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes). The standards update also makes certain changes to presentation and disclosure requirements of financial instruments. The standards update is effective for NEE and FPL beginning January 1, 2018 and will be applied retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. NEE and FPL are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of this standards update will have, if any, on their consolidated financial statements. 

96 

Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

5. Income Taxes 
    
  The components of income taxes are as follows: 

A reconciliation between the effective income tax rates and the applicable statutory rate is as follows: 

97 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The income tax effects of temporary differences giving rise to consolidated deferred income tax liabilities and assets are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Amount relates to a valuation allowance related to the solar projects in Spain, deferred state tax credits and state operating loss carryforwards. 
       
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are included on the consolidated balance sheets as follows: 

The components of NEE's deferred tax assets relating to net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards at   December 31, 2016   are as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes $  60 million   of net operating loss carryforwards with an indefinite expiration period. 
              (b) 
    Includes $  188 million   of ITC carryforwards with an indefinite expiration period. 
     
   98 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

6. Jointly-Owned Electric Plants 
    
  Certain NEE subsidiaries own undivided interests in the jointly-owned facilities described below, and are entitled to a proportionate share of the output from those facilities. The subsidiaries are responsible for their share of the operating costs, as well as providing their own financing. Accordingly, each subsidiary's proportionate share of the facilities and related revenues and expenses is included in the appropriate balance sheet and statement of income captions. NEE's and FPL's respective shares of direct expenses for these facilities are included in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense, O M expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and taxes other than income taxes and other - net in NEE's and FPL's consolidated statements of income. 
    
  NEE's and FPL's proportionate ownership interest in jointly-owned facilities is as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Excludes nuclear fuel. 

7. Business Acquisitions 
    
  Texas Pipeline Business -   On October 1, 2015, a subsidiary of NEP acquired   100%   of the membership interests in NET Holdings Management, LLC (Texas pipeline business), a developer, owner and operator of the Texas pipelines. One of the acquired pipelines is subject to a   10%   noncontrolling interest. The aggregate purchase price of approximately   $2 billion   included approximately   $934 million   in cash consideration and the assumption of approximately   $706 million   in existing debt of the Texas pipeline business and its subsidiaries at closing and excluded post-closing working capital adjustments of approximately   $2 million  . The purchase price is subject to (i) a   $200 million   holdback payable, in whole or in part, upon satisfaction of financial performance and capital expenditure thresholds relating to planned expansion projects (contingent holdback) and (ii) a   $200 million   holdback retained to satisfy any indemnification obligations of the sellers through April 2017. NEP incurred approximately   $13 million   in acquisition-related costs during the year ended December 31, 2015, which are reflected in O M expenses in NEE's consolidated statements of income. 
    
  Under the acquisition method, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on October 1, 2015 based on their estimated fair value. All fair value measurements of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the noncontrolling interest, were based on significant estimates and assumptions, including Level 3 inputs, which require judgment. Estimates and assumptions include the projected timing and amount of future cash flows, discount rates reflecting risk inherent in future cash flows and future market prices. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recognized as goodwill at the acquisition date. The goodwill arising from the acquisition consists largely of growth opportunities from the Texas pipeline business. Approximately   $380 million   of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes over a   15   year period. A liability of approximately   $186 million   was recognized as of the acquisition date for each of the contingent holdback and the indemnity holdback, reflecting the fair value of the expected future payments. NEE determined this fair value measurement based on management's probability assessment. The significant inputs and assumptions used in the fair value measurement included the estimated probability of executing contracts related to financial performance and capital expenditure thresholds as well as the appropriate discount rate. In 2016, NEE recorded fair value adjustments to eliminate the entire contingent holdback as the contracts contemplated in the acquisition were not executed by   December 31, 2016  . The fair value adjustments are reflected as revaluation of contingent consideration in NEE's consolidated statements of income. At   December 31, 2016  , the carrying amount of the indemnity holdback was approximately $  199 million  . The indemnity holdback is included in current other liabilities at   December 31, 2016   and the contingent and indemnity holdbacks are included in noncurrent other liabilities at December 31, 2015 on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. 

99 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the acquisition of the Texas pipeline business: 
                       
    Amounts Recognized as of October 1, 2015 
        
    (millions) 
      Assets: 
      
      Property, plant and equipment 
    $ 
    806 
      
      Cash 
    1 
      
      Other receivables and current other assets 
    21 
      
      Noncurrent other assets (other intangible assets, see Note 1 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) 
    720 
      
      Noncurrent other assets (goodwill, see Note 1 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets) 
    622 
      
      Total assets 
    $ 
    2,170 

Liabilities: 
      
      Long-term debt, including current portion 
    $ 
    706 
      
      Accounts payable and current other liabilities 
    46 
      
      Noncurrent other liabilities, primarily acquisition holdbacks 
    415 
      
      Total liabilities 
    1,167 
      
      Less noncontrolling interest at fair value 
    69 
      
      Total cash consideration 
    $ 
    934 

Pending Oncor-Related Transactions   - In July 2016, NEE, EFH Merger Co., LLC (Merger Sub), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of NEE, Energy Future Holdings Corp. (EFH Corp.) and Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC (EFIH), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of EFH Corp., entered into an agreement and plan of merger (EFH merger agreement). Pursuant to the EFH merger agreement and after the reorganization of EFH Corp. (reorganized EFH) under the United States Bankruptcy Code, Merger Sub will acquire   100%   of the equity of reorganized EFH Corp. and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect ownership of   80.03%   of the outstanding equity interests of Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC (Oncor), a regulated electric distribution and transmission business that operates the largest distribution and transmission system in Texas. The EFH merger agreement, as amended in September 2016, provides that the consideration for the transaction funded by NEE will be   $9.796 billion  , which will be paid almost all in cash, with the balance in shares of NEE common stock. The amount of consideration will be subject to adjustment as provided in the EFH merger agreement. On February 17, 2017, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed EFH Corp.'s Eighth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization. Completion of the merger and the actual closing date remain subject to, among other things, approval by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) and receipt of a supplemental private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. NEE, Merger Sub, EFH Corp. and EFIH have certain specified termination rights under the EFH merger agreement. In October 2016, NEE and Oncor filed a joint application with the PUCT requesting the approval of the EFH Corp. merger, as well as the TTHC merger described below. The PUCT hearings regarding the merger transactions were conducted the week of February 20, 2017.  
    
  In October 2016, NEE and its direct wholly owned subsidiary WSS Acquisition Company (TTHC Merger Sub) entered into an agreement (TTHC merger agreement) with Texas Transmission Holdings Corporation (TTHC) and certain stockholders of TTHC, Cheyne Walk Investment Pte Ltd, Borealis Power Holdings Inc. and BPC Health Corporation (together, the Primary Holders). Pursuant to the TTHC merger agreement, TTHC Merger Sub would merge with TTHC for a total cash merger consideration to be paid by NEE of approximately   $2.410 billion  , subject to adjustment as provided in the TTHC merger agreement. TTHC, through Texas Transmission Investment LLC (TTI), a wholly owned subsidiary, owns an approximately   20%   interest in Oncor. Completion of the TTHC merger and actual closing date remain subject to, among other things, approval by the PUCT. NEE, TTHC Merger Sub, TTHC and the Primary Holders have certain specified termination rights under the TTHC merger agreement.  
    
  In October 2016, T   D Equity Acquisition, LLC (OMI purchaser), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of NEE, Oncor Management Investment LLC (OMI) and Oncor entered into an agreement for the OMI purchaser to purchase OMI's   0.22%   interest in Oncor for approximately   $27 million  . This transaction is subject to NEE closing its agreement to acquire EFH Corp. described above.  
    
  The TTHC and OMI transactions, when combined with NEE s agreement to acquire EFH Corp. described above, if completed, would result in NEE owning   100%   of Oncor. NEE expects the EFH Corp. merger and the other Oncor-related transactions to be completed in the first half of 2017. 

100 

Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

8. Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) 
    
  In February 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that modified consolidation guidance. The standards update makes changes to both the variable interest entity model and the voting interest entity model, including modifying the evaluation of whether limited partnerships or similar legal entities are VIEs or voting interest entities and amending the guidance for assessing how relationships of related parties affect the consolidation analysis of VIEs. The standards update was effective for NEE and FPL beginning January 1, 2016, and the modified retrospective approach was adopted. The adoption of the standards update did not result in any changes to the previous consolidation conclusions; however, it did result in a limited number of entities being considered VIEs and the related disclosure was provided for the current period. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2016  , NEE has   thirty-three   VIEs which it consolidates and has interests in certain other VIEs which it does not consolidate. 
    
  FPL   - FPL is considered the primary beneficiary of, and therefore consolidates, a VIE that is a wholly owned bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary that it formed in 2007 for the sole purpose of issuing storm-recovery bonds pursuant to the securitization provisions of the Florida Statutes and a financing order of the FPSC. FPL is considered the primary beneficiary because FPL has the power to direct the significant activities of the VIE, and its equity investment, which is subordinate to the bondholder's interest in the VIE, is at risk. Storm restoration costs incurred by FPL during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in FPL's funded storm and property insurance reserve, resulting in a storm reserve deficiency. In 2007, the VIE issued $  652 million   aggregate principal amount of senior secured bonds (storm-recovery bonds), primarily for the after-tax equivalent of the total of FPL's unrecovered balance of the 2004 storm restoration costs, the 2005 storm restoration costs and to reestablish FPL's storm and property insurance reserve. In connection with this financing, net proceeds, after debt issuance costs, to the VIE (approximately $  644 million  ) were used to acquire the storm-recovery property, which includes the right to impose, collect and receive a storm-recovery charge from all customers receiving electric transmission or distribution service from FPL under rate schedules approved by the FPSC or under special contracts, certain other rights and interests that arise under the financing order issued by the FPSC and certain other collateral pledged by the VIE that issued the bonds. The storm-recovery bonds are payable only from and are secured by the storm-recovery property. The bondholders have no recourse to the general credit of FPL. The assets of the VIE were approximately $  216 million   and $  230 million   at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, and consisted primarily of storm-recovery property, which are included in both current and noncurrent regulatory assets on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. The liabilities of the VIE were approximately $  214 million   and $  278 million   at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, and consisted primarily of storm-recovery bonds, which are included in long-term debt on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. 
    
  FPL entered into a purchased power agreement effective in 1995 with a   330   MW coal-fired facility to purchase substantially all of the facility's capacity and electrical output over a substantial portion of its estimated useful life. The facility is considered a VIE because FPL absorbs a portion of the facility's variability related to changes in the market price of coal through the price it pays per MWh (energy payment). Since FPL does not control the most significant activities of the facility, including operations and maintenance, FPL is not the primary beneficiary and does not consolidate this VIE. The energy payments paid by FPL will fluctuate as coal prices change. This fluctuation does not expose FPL to losses since the energy payments paid by FPL to the facility are recovered through the fuel clause as approved by the FPSC. See Note 13 - Contracts for a discussion of FPL's purchase of the 330 MW coal-fired facility. 
    
  NEER   - NEE consolidates   thirty-two   NEER VIEs. NEER is considered the primary beneficiary of these VIEs since NEER controls the most significant activities of these VIEs, including operations and maintenance, as well as construction, and has the obligation to absorb expected losses of these VIEs. 
    
  A   subsidiary of NEER is the primary beneficiary of, and therefore consolidates, NEP, which consolidates NEP OpCo because of NEP s controlling interest in the general partner of NEP OpCo. NEP is a limited partnership formed to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows through a limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. NEE owns a controlling non-economic general partner interest in NEP and a limited partner interest in NEP OpCo, and presents NEP's limited partner interest as a noncontrolling interest in NEE's consolidated financial statements. At   December 31, 2016  , NEE owns common units of NEP OpCo representing noncontrolling interest in NEP s operating projects of approximately   65.2%  . The assets and liabilities of NEP were approximately $  7.2 billion   and $  5.0 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  , and primarily consisted of property, plant and equipment and long-term debt. 
    
  A   NEER VIE consolidates two entities which own and operate natural gas/oil electric generation facilities with the capability of producing   110   MW. These entities sell their electric output under power sales contracts to a third party, with expiration dates in   2018   and   2020  . The power sales contracts provide the offtaker the ability to dispatch the facilities and require the offtaker to absorb the cost of fuel. The entities have third-party debt which is secured by liens against the generation facilities and the other assets of these entities. The debt holders have no recourse to the general credit of NEER for the repayment of debt. The assets and liabilities of the VIE were approximately $  95 million   and $  42 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016   and $  84 million   and $  47 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015  , and consisted primarily of property, plant and equipment and long-term debt. 

101 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Two   indirect subsidiaries of NEER each contributed, to a NEP subsidiary, an approximately   50  % ownership interest in three entities which own and operate solar PV facilities with the capability of producing a total of approximately   277   MW. Each of the two indirect subsidiaries of NEER is considered a VIE since the non-managing members have no substantive rights over the managing members, and is consolidated by NEER. These three entities sell their electric output to third parties under power sales contracts with expiration dates in 2035 and   2036  . The three entities have third-party debt which is secured by liens against the assets of the entities. The debt holders have no recourse to the general credit of NEER for the repayment of debt. The assets and liabilities of these VIEs were approximately $  571 million   and $  487 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016   and $  657 million   and $  626 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015  , and consisted primarily of property, plant and equipment and long-term debt. 
    
  NEER consolidates a special purpose entity that has insufficient equity at risk and is considered a VIE. The entity provided a loan in the form of a note receivable (see Note 4 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments Recorded at Other than Fair Value) to an unrelated third party, and also issued senior secured bonds which are collateralized by the note receivable. The assets and liabilities of the VIE were approximately   $502 million   and   $511 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  , and consisted primarily of notes receivables (included in other investments) and long-term debt. 
    
  The other   twenty-seven   NEER VIEs that are consolidated relate to certain subsidiaries which have sold differential membership interests in entities which own and operate wind electric generation and solar   PV   facilities with the capability of producing a total of approximately   6,847   MW and   374   MW, respectively. These entities sell their electric output either under power sales contracts to third parties with expiration dates ranging from   2018   through   2046   or in the spot market. Certain investors that have no equity at risk in the VIEs hold differential membership interests, which give them the right to receive a portion of the economic attributes of the generation facilities, including certain tax attributes. Certain entities have third-party debt which is secured by liens against the generation facilities and the other assets of these entities or by pledges of NEER's ownership interest in these entities. The debt holders have no recourse to the general credit of NEER for the repayment of debt. The assets and liabilities of these VIEs totaled approximately $  10.9 billion   and $  6.9 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  .   Twenty   of the   twenty-seven   were VIEs at December 31, 2015 and were consolidated; the assets and liabilities of those VIEs totaled approximately $  7.6 billion   and $  5.0 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015  . At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , the assets and liabilities of the VIEs consisted primarily of property, plant and equipment, deferral related to differential membership interests and long-term debt. 
    
  Other   - As of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , several NEE subsidiaries have investments totaling approximately $  2,505 million   ($  2,049 million   at FPL) and $  602 million   ($  476 million   at FPL), respectively, which are included in special use funds and other investments on NEE's consolidated balance sheets and in special use funds on FPL's consolidated balance sheets. At   December 31, 2016  , these investments represented primarily commingled funds, and at   December 31, 2015  , mortgage-backed securities. NEE subsidiaries, including FPL, are not the primary beneficiary and therefore do not consolidate any of these entities because they do not control any of the ongoing activities of these entities, were not involved in the initial design of these entities and do not have a controlling financial interest in these entities. 
    
  Certain subsidiaries of NEE have noncontrolling interests in entities accounted for under the equity method. These entities are limited partnerships or similar entity structures in which the limited partners or nonmanaging members do not have substantive rights, and therefore are considered VIEs. NEE is not the primary beneficiary because it does not have a controlling financial interest in these entities, and therefore does not consolidate any of these entities. NEE s investment in these entities totaled approximately $  234 million   at   December 31, 2016  , which are included in other investments on NEE s consolidated balance sheets. Subsidiaries of NEE have committed to invest an additional approximately $  30 million   in   two   of the entities. 

9. Investments in Partnerships and Joint Ventures 
    
  Certain subsidiaries of NEE, primarily NEER, have noncontrolling non-majority owned interests in various partnerships and joint ventures, essentially all of which are in the process of developing or constructing natural gas pipelines or own electric generation facilities. At   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , NEE's investments in partnerships and joint ventures totaled approximately   $1,767 million   and   $1,063 million  , respectively, which are included in other investments on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. NEER's interest in these partnerships and joint ventures primarily range from approximately   31%   to   50%  . At   December 31, 2016   and 2015, the principal entities included in NEER's investments in partnerships and joint ventures were Sabal Trail Transmission, LLC, Desert Sunlight Investment Holdings, LLC, Northeast Energy, LP and Cedar Point II Wind, LP. 

102 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Summarized combined information for these principal entities is as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Substantially all of the difference between the investment carrying amount and the underlying equity in net assets is being amortized over a 25-year period. 
       
  In 2004, a trust created by NEE sold $  300 million   of 5 7/8% preferred trust securities to the public and $  9 million   of common trust securities to NEE. The trust is an unconsolidated   100%  -owned finance subsidiary. The proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common trust securities were used to buy 5 7/8% junior subordinated debentures maturing in March 2044 from NEECH. NEE has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the preferred trust securities and the junior subordinated debentures. 

10. Common Shareholders' Equity 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation   - On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update related to the accounting for employee share-based payment awards including simplification in areas such as (i) income tax consequences; (ii) classification of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (iii) classification on the statement of cash flows. The standards update was effective for NEE beginning January 1, 2017, however, NEE early adopted the provisions of the standards update during the three months ended June 30, 2016 with an effective date of January 1, 2016. Upon adoption, NEE recorded approximately   $18 million   primarily related to previously unrecognized excess tax benefits in deferred income taxes with a resulting increase to retained earnings as of January 1, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the impact of the standards update resulted in approximately   $30 million   of excess tax benefits being recorded in NEE's consolidated statements of income. All other provisions of the standards update did not have a material impact to NEE's consolidated financial statements. The standards update had no effect on FPL. 
    
  Earnings Per Share   - The reconciliation of NEE's basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to NEE is as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Calculated using the treasury stock method. Performance share awards are included in diluted weighted-average number of common shares outstanding based upon what would be issued if the end of the reporting period was the end of the term of the award. 
       
  Common shares issuable pursuant to equity units, performance share awards, stock options and forward sale agreements and restricted stock which were not included in the denominator above due to their antidilutive effect were approximately   7.9 million  ,   3.5 million   and   2.6 million   for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Issuance of Common Stock and Forward Sale Agreement   - In November 2013, NEE sold   4.5 million   shares of its common stock at a price of   $88.03   per share, and a forward counterparty borrowed and sold   6.6 million   shares of NEE's common stock in connection with a forward sale agreement. In December 2014, NEE physically settled the forward sale agreement by delivering   6.6 million   shares of its common stock to the forward counterparty in exchange for cash proceeds of approximately   $552 million  . The forward sale price used to determine the cash proceeds received by NEE was calculated based on the initial forward sale price of   $88.03   per share less certain adjustments as specified in the forward sale agreement. Prior to the settlement date, the forward sale agreement had a dilutive effect on NEE s earnings per share when the average market price per share of NEE s common stock was above the adjusted forward sale price per share. 
  
   103 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Forward Sale Agreements   - In November 2016, NEE entered into forward sale agreements with several forward counterparties to be settled on a date or dates to be specified at NEE s direction, no later than November 1, 2017. NEE may elect physical settlement, cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of its obligations under the forward sale agreements. If NEE physically settles, it will deliver the shares of its common stock to the applicable forward counterparty in exchange for cash proceeds at the then applicable forward sale price, which represents the initial forward sale price of   $124.00   per share, less certain adjustments as specified in the forward sale agreements. The forward sale transactions are classified as equity transactions because they are indexed to NEE's common stock and physical settlement is within NEE's control. At December 31, 2016, if NEE had settled the forward sale agreements by delivery of   12 million   shares of its common stock to the forward counterparties, NEE would have received net proceeds of approximately   $1.5 billion  . Prior to the settlement date, the forward sale agreements will have a dilutive effect on NEE's earnings per share when the average market price per share of NEE's common stock is above the adjusted forward sale price per share. As of December 31, 2016, the adjusted forward sale price per share was greater than the average market price per share of NEE's common stock; accordingly the   12 million   shares were antidilutive.  
    
  Common Stock Dividend Restrictions   - NEE's charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. FPL's mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions to NEE. These restrictions do not currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to NEE. 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation   - Net income for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   includes approximately $  77 million  , $  60 million   and $  60 million  , respectively, of compensation costs and $  30 million  , $  23 million   and $  23 million  , respectively, of income tax benefits related to stock-based compensation arrangements. Compensation cost capitalized for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was not material. As of December 31,   2016  , there were approximately $  78 million   of unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested/nonexercisable stock-based compensation arrangements. These costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.8   years. 
    
  At December 31,   2016  , approximately   16 million   shares of common stock were authorized for awards to officers, employees and non-employee directors of NEE and its subsidiaries under NEE's: (a) Amended and Restated 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, (b) 2007 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan and (c) earlier equity compensation plans under which shares are reserved for issuance under existing grants, but no additional shares are available for grant under the earlier plans. NEE satisfies restricted stock and performance share awards by issuing new shares of its common stock or by purchasing shares of its common stock in the open market. NEE satisfies stock option exercises by issuing new shares of its common stock. NEE generally grants most of its stock-based compensation awards in the first quarter of each year. 
    
  Restricted Stock and Performance Share Awards     - Restricted stock typically vests within   three   years after the date of grant and is subject to, among other things, restrictions on transferability prior to vesting. The fair value of restricted stock is measured based upon the closing market price of NEE common stock as of the date of grant. Performance share awards are typically payable at the end of a   three  -year performance period if the specified performance criteria are met. The fair value of performance share awards is estimated primarily based upon the closing market price of NEE common stock as of the date of grant less the present value of expected dividends, multiplied by an estimated performance multiple which is subsequently trued up based on actual performance.     
    
  The activity in restricted stock and performance share awards for the year ended December 31,   2016   was as follows: 

104 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The weighted-average grant date fair value per share of restricted stock granted for the years ended   December 31, 2015   and   2014   was $  103.58   and $  93.46   respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value per share of performance share awards granted for the years ended   December 31, 2015   and   2014   was $  77.12   and $  71.52  , respectively. 
    
  The total fair value of restricted stock and performance share awards vested was $  99 million  , $  108 million   and $  85 million   for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Options - Options typically vest within   three   years after the date of grant and have a maximum term of   ten   years. The exercise price of each option granted equals the closing market price of NEE common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of the options is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and based on the following assumptions: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Based on historical experience. 
              (b) 
    Based on historical exercise and post-vesting cancellation experience adjusted for outstanding awards. 
       
  Option activity for the year ended December 31,   2016   was as follows: 

The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was $  11.74  , $  13.62   and $  14.09   per share for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was approximately $  42 million  , $  11 million   and $  30 million   for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Cash received from option exercises was approximately $  36 million  , $  9 million   and $  26 million   for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. The tax benefits realized from options exercised were approximately   $16 million  , $  4 million   and $  11 million   for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Preferred Stock   - NEE's charter authorizes the issuance of   100 million   shares of serial preferred stock, $  0.01   par value,   none   of which are outstanding. FPL's charter authorizes the issuance of   10,414,100   shares of preferred stock, $  100   par value,   5 million   shares of subordinated preferred stock,   no   par value, and   5 million   shares of preferred stock,   no   par value,   none   of which are outstanding. 

105 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   - The components of AOCI, net of tax, are as follows: 

(a) 
    Reclassified to interest expense and also to other - net in 2014 and 2015 in NEE's consolidated statements of income. See Note 3 - Income Statement Impact of Derivative Instruments. 
              (b) 
    Reclassified to gains on disposal of investments and other property - net in NEE's consolidated statements of income. 

106 

Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

11. Debt 
    
  Long-term debt consists of the following: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Principal on the storm-recovery bonds is due on the final maturity date (the date by which the principal must be repaid to prevent a default) for each tranche, however, it is being paid semiannually and sequentially. 
              (b) 
    Tax exempt bonds that permit individual bond holders to tender the bonds for purchase at any time prior to maturity. In the event bonds are tendered for purchase, they would be remarketed by a designated remarketing agent in accordance with the related indenture. If the remarketing is unsuccessful, FPL would be required to purchase the tax exempt bonds. As of   December 31, 2016  , all tax exempt bonds tendered for purchase have been successfully remarketed. FPL's bank revolving line of credit facilities are available to support the purchase of tax exempt bonds. Variable interest rate is established at various intervals by the remarketing agent. 
              (c) 
    Variable rate is based on an underlying index plus a margin. 
              (d) 
    Interest rate contracts, primarily swaps, have been entered into with respect to certain of these debt issuances. Additionally, a foreign currency swap has been entered into with respect to the Japanese yen denominated term loans - variable. See Note 3. 
              (e) 
    Excludes debt totaling   $373 million   reflected in liabilities associated with assets held for sale on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. 
              (f) 
    Includes approximately   $490 million   of debt held by a wholly owned subsidiary of NEER and collateralized by a third-party note receivable held by that subsidiary. See Note 8 - NEER. 
              (g) 
    Excludes debt totaling   $938 million   reflected in liabilities associated with assets held for sale on NEE's consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1 - Assets and Liabilities Associated with Assets Held for Sale. 
              (h) 
    See Spain Solar Projects Debt Restructuring below. 
       
  Minimum annual maturities of long  -  term debt for NEE are approximately   $2,604 million  ,   $2,118 million  ,   $2,606 million  ,   $1,842 million   and   $2,712 million   for   2017  ,   2018  ,   2019  ,   2020   and   2021  , respectively. The respective amounts for FPL are approximately   $367 million  ,   $347 million  ,   $251 million  ,   $10 million   and   $47 million  . 

107 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

At   December 31, 2016 and 2015  , short-term borrowings had a weighted-average interest rate of   1.07%   (  1.07%   for FPL) and   2.10%   (  0.83%   for FPL), respectively. Subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, had credit facilities with available capacity as of December 31, 2016 of approximately   $10.2 billion   (  $3.6 billion   for FPL), of which approximately   $9.8 billion   (  $3.6 billion   for FPL) relate to revolving line of credit facilities and   $0.4 billion   (  none   for FPL) relate to letter of credit facilities. Certain of the revolving line of credit facilities provide for the issuance of letters of credit of up to approximately   $3.4 billion   (  $0.7 billion   for FPL). The issuance of letters of credit under certain revolving line of credit facilities is subject to the aggregate commitment of the relevant banks to issue letters of credit under the applicable facility. 
    
  In February 2017, NEECH entered into two variable rate bi-lateral term loan agreements each providing for a   $3.75 billion   short-term, non-revolving term loan facility, for a total of   $7.5 billion  . The obligation to make loans pursuant to these bi-lateral term loan agreements terminates in August 2017 and each loan agreement expires in February 2018. There are currently no amounts outstanding under these facilities. 
    
  NEE has guaranteed certain payment obligations of NEECH, including most of those under NEECH's debt, including all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its payment guarantees and indemnifications. NEECH has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of NEER and its subsidiaries. 
    
  In May 2015, NEECH completed a remarketing of   $600 million   aggregate principal amount of its Series E Debentures due June 1, 2017 (Debentures) that were issued in May 2012 as components of equity units issued concurrently by NEE (May 2012 equity units). The Debentures are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NEE. In connection with the remarketing of the Debentures, the interest rate on the Debentures was reset to   1.586%   per year, and interest is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2015. In connection with the settlement of the contracts to purchase NEE common stock that were issued as components of the May 2012 equity units, on June 1, 2015, NEE issued   7,860,000   shares of common stock in exchange for   $600 million  . 
    
  In August 2015, NEECH completed a remarketing of approximately   $650 million   aggregate principal amount of its Series F Debentures due September 1, 2017, which constitutes a portion of the   $650 million   aggregate principal amount of such debentures (Debentures) that were issued in September 2012 as components of equity units issued concurrently by NEE (September 2012 equity units). The Debentures are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NEE. In connection with the remarketing of the Debentures, the interest rate on all of the Debentures was reset to   2.056%   per year and interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing September 1, 2015. In connection with the settlement of the contracts to purchase NEE common stock that were issued as components of the September 2012 equity units, in August and September 2015, NEE issued a total of   8,173,099   shares of common stock in exchange for   $650 million  . 
    
  In September 2015, NEE sold   $700 million   of equity units (initially consisting of Corporate Units). Each equity unit has a stated amount of   $50   and consists of a contract to purchase NEE common stock (stock purchase contract) and, initially, a   5%   undivided beneficial ownership interest in a Series H Debenture due September 1, 2020 issued in the principal amount of   $1,000   by NEECH. Each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase by no later than September 1, 2018 (the final settlement date) for a price of   $50   in cash, a number of shares of NEE common stock (subject to antidilution adjustments) based on a price per share range of   $95.35   to   $114.42  . If purchased on the final settlement date, as of   December 31, 2016  , the number of shares issued would (subject to antidilution adjustments) range from   0.5261   shares if the applicable market value of a share of common stock is less than or equal to   $95.35   to   0.4385   shares if the applicable market value of a share is equal to or greater than   $114.42  , with applicable market value to be determined using the average closing prices of NEE common stock over a   20  -day trading period ending August 29, 2018. Total annual distributions on the equity units will be at the rate of   6.371%  , consisting of interest on the debentures (  2.36%   per year) and payments under the stock purchase contracts (  4.011%   per year). The interest rate on the debentures is expected to be reset on or after March 1, 2018. A holder of an equity unit may satisfy its purchase obligation with proceeds raised from remarketing the NEECH debentures that are part of its equity unit. The undivided beneficial ownership interest in the NEECH debenture that is a component of each Corporate Unit is pledged to NEE to secure the holder's obligation to purchase NEE common stock under the related stock purchase contract. If a successful remarketing does not occur on or before the third business day prior to the final settlement date, and a holder has not notified NEE of its intention to settle the stock purchase contract with cash, the debentures that are components of the Corporate Units will be used to satisfy in full the holders' obligations to purchase NEE common stock under the related stock purchase contracts on the final settlement date. The debentures are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NEE. 
    
  In August 2016, NEE sold   $1.5 billion   of equity units (initially consisting of Corporate Units). Each equity unit has a stated amount of   $50   and consists of a contract to purchase NEE common stock (stock purchase contract) and, initially, a   5%   undivided beneficial ownership interest in a Series I Debenture due September 1, 2021 issued in the principal amount of   $1,000   by NEECH. Each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase by no later than September 1, 2019 (the final settlement date) for a price of   $50   in cash, a number of shares of NEE common stock (subject to antidilution adjustments) based on a price per share range of   $127.63   to   $159.54  . If purchased on the final settlement date, as of   December 31, 2016  , the number of shares issued would (subject to antidilution adjustments) range from   0.3918   shares if the applicable market value of a share of common stock is less than or equal to   $127.63   to   0.3134   shares if the applicable market value of a share is equal to or greater than   $159.54  , with applicable market value to be determined using the average closing prices of NEE common stock over a   20  -day trading period ending August 28, 2019. Total annual distributions on the equity units will be at the rate of   6.123%  , consisting of interest on the debentures (  1.65%   per year) and payments under the stock purchase contracts (  4.473%   per year). The interest rate on the debentures is expected to  
  
   108 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

be reset on or after March 1, 2019. A holder of an equity unit may satisfy its purchase obligation with proceeds raised from remarketing the NEECH debentures that are part of its equity unit. The undivided beneficial ownership interest in the NEECH debenture that is a component of each Corporate Unit is pledged to NEE to secure the holder's obligation to purchase NEE common stock under the related stock purchase contract. If a successful remarketing does not occur on or before the third business day prior to the final settlement date, and a holder has not notified NEE of its intention to settle the stock purchase contract with cash, the debentures that are components of the Corporate Units will be used to satisfy in full the holders' obligations to purchase NEE common stock under the related stock purchase contracts on the final settlement date. The debentures are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NEE. 
    
  In September 2016, NEECH completed a remarketing of   $500 million   aggregate principal amount of its Series G Debentures due September 1, 2018 (Debentures) that were issued in September 2013 as components of equity units issued concurrently by NEE (September 2013 equity units). The Debentures are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NEE. In connection with the remarketing of the Debentures, the interest rate on the Debentures was reset to   1.649%   per year, and interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2017. In connection with the settlement of the contracts to purchase NEE common stock that were issued as components of the September 2013 equity units, on September 1, 2016, NEE issued   5,101,000   shares of common stock in exchange for   $500 million  . 
    
  Prior to the issuance of NEE s common stock, the stock purchase contracts, if dilutive, will be reflected in NEE s diluted earnings per share calculations using the treasury stock method. Under this method, the number of shares of NEE common stock used in calculating diluted earnings per share is deemed to be increased by the excess, if any, of the number of shares that would be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts over the number of shares that could be purchased by NEE in the market, at the average market price during the period, using the proceeds receivable upon settlement. 
    
  Spain Solar Projects Debt Restructuring   - In August 2016, NextEra Energy Espa a, S.L., the NEER subsidiary in Spain that is the direct shareholder of the subsidiaries that own the solar projects in Spain (project-level subsidiaries), and the project-level subsidiaries entered into an agreement with the lenders to restructure the project-level debt, which included, among other things, a re-amortization of the debt, including extending the maturity date from 2030 to 2037, and reducing the original interest rate under the project-level financing agreements. At closing, the NEECH affiliates' remaining letter of credit posting obligation on behalf of the project-level subsidiaries of approximately    23 million   (approximately $  26 million  ) was used primarily to make a prepayment of the restructured project-level debt. The noncurrent portions of the restructured project-level debt, net of unamortized debt issuance costs, and associated derivative liabilities related to the interest rate swaps were both reclassified from current to long-term debt and noncurrent derivative liabilities, respectively, on NEE's consolidated balance sheets as of   December 31, 2016   and totaled approximately $  498 million   and $  122 million  , respectively, at that date. The restructured debt is secured solely by the assets of the project-level subsidiaries.  

12. Asset Retirement Obligations 
    
  FPL's AROs relate primarily to the nuclear decommissioning obligations of its nuclear units. FPL's AROs other than nuclear decommissioning obligations are not significant. The accounting provisions result in timing differences in the recognition of legal asset retirement costs for financial reporting purposes and the method the FPSC allows FPL to recover in rates. NEER's AROs relate primarily to the nuclear decommissioning obligations of its nuclear plants and obligations for the dismantlement of certain of its wind and solar facilities. See Note 1 - Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs. 
    
  A rollforward of NEE's and FPL's AROs is as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Primarily reflects the effect of revised cost estimates for decommissioning FPL's nuclear units consistent with the updated nuclear decommissioning studies approved by the FPSC. 
              (b) 
    Primarily reflects the effect of revised cost estimates for decommissioning NEER s nuclear units and a change in assumptions relating to spent fuel costs, partly offset by increased escalation rates. 
              (c) 
    Primarily reflects the effect of revised cost estimates to dismantle certain of NEER s wind and solar facilities. 

109 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Restricted funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission NEE's and FPL's nuclear units included in special use funds on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets are as follows (see Note 4 - Special Use Funds): 

NEE and FPL have identified but not recognized ARO liabilities related to electric transmission and distribution and telecommunications assets resulting from easements over property not owned by NEE or FPL. These easements are generally perpetual and only require retirement action upon abandonment or cessation of use of the property or facility for its specified purpose. The ARO liability is not estimable for such easements as NEE and FPL intend to use these properties indefinitely. In the event NEE and FPL decide to abandon or cease the use of a particular easement, an ARO liability would be recorded at that time. 

13. Commitments and Contingencies 
    
  Commitments   - NEE and its subsidiaries have made commitments in connection with a portion of their projected capital expenditures. Capital expenditures at FPL include, among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities and the procurement of nuclear fuel. At NEER, capital expenditures include, among other things, the cost, including capitalized interest, for construction and development of wind and solar projects and the procurement of nuclear fuel, as well as the investment in the development and construction of its natural gas pipeline assets. Capital expenditures for Corporate and Other primarily include the cost to maintain existing transmission facilities at NextEra Energy Transmission, LLC  .  
    
  At   December 31, 2016  , estimated capital expenditures for   2017   through   2021   for which applicable internal approvals (and also, if required, FPSC approvals for FPL or regulatory approvals for acquisitions) have been received were as follows: 

______________________ 
            (b) 
    Includes land, generation structures, transmission interconnection and integration and licensing. 
              (c) 
    Consists of capital expenditures for new wind projects, repowering of existing wind projects and related transmission totaling approximately   2,760   MW. 
              (d) 
    Includes capital expenditures for new solar projects and related transmission totaling approximately   225   MW. 
              (e) 
    Includes capital expenditures for construction of three natural gas pipelines, including equity contributions associated with equity investments in joint ventures for two pipelines and AFUDC associated with the third pipeline. The natural gas pipelines are subject to certain conditions. See Contracts below. 
       
  The above estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates. 
    
  Contracts   - In addition to the commitments made in connection with the estimated capital expenditures included in the table in Commitments above, FPL has commitments under long-term purchased power and fuel contracts. As of   December 31, 2016  , FPL is obligated under a take-or-pay purchased power contract to pay for   375   MW annually   through 2021  . FPL also has various firm pay-for-performance contracts to purchase approximately   114   MW from certain cogenerators and small power producers with expiration dates ranging from   2026   through   2034  . The purchased power contracts provide for capacity and energy payments. Energy payments are based on the actual power taken under these contracts. Capacity payments for the pay-for-performance contracts  
  
   110 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

are subject to the facilities meeting certain contract conditions. FPL has contracts with expiration dates   through 2036   for the purchase and transportation of natural gas and coal, and storage of natural gas. In addition, FPL has entered into   25  -year natural gas transportation agreements with each of Sabal Trail Transmission, LLC (Sabal Trail, an entity in which a wholly owned NEER subsidiary has a   42.5%   ownership interest) and Florida Southeast Connection, LLC (Florida Southeast Connection, a wholly owned NEER subsidiary), each of which will build, own and operate a pipeline that will be part of a natural gas pipeline system, for a quantity of   400,000   MMBtu/day beginning mid-2017 and increasing to   600,000   MMBtu/day in mid-2020. These agreements contain firm commitments that are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including the completion of construction of the pipeline system to be built by Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection. See Commitments above. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2016  , NEER has entered into contracts with expiration dates ranging from   late February 2017   through   2032   primarily for the purchase of wind turbines, wind towers and solar modules and related construction and development activities, as well as for the supply of uranium, and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel and has made commitments for the construction of the natural gas pipelines. Approximately   $3.1 billion   of related commitments are included in the estimated capital expenditures table in Commitments above. In addition, NEER has contracts primarily for the purchase, transportation and storage of natural gas with expiration dates ranging from   March 2017   through   2019  . 
    
  The required capacity and/or minimum payments under the contracts discussed above as of   December 31, 2016   were estimated as follows: 

______________________ 
            (b) 
    Recoverable through the fuel clause. 
               (d) 
    Includes an approximately   $30 million   commitment to invest in clean power and technology businesses primarily in 2017. 
        
  In January 2017, FPL assumed ownership of a   330 MW   coal-fired generation facility located in Indiantown, Florida for a purchase price of   $451 million   (including existing debt of approximately   $218 million  ). FPL will record a regulatory asset for approximately   $451 million  , which will be amortized over   nine years   and recovered through the capacity clause with a return on the portion of the unamortized balance of the regulatory asset. Prior to assuming ownership of this facility, FPL had a long-term purchased power agreement with this facility for substantially all of its capacity and energy. FPL expects to reduce the plant s operations with the intention of eventually phasing the plant out of service. FPL will recover the fuel costs of the facility through the fuel clause and operating costs through the capacity clause until FPL's next base rate filing where non-fuel cost recovery will be through base rates.  
    
  Insurance   - Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In accordance with this Act, NEE maintains $  450 million   of private liability insurance per site, which is the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides up to $  13.0 billion   of liability insurance coverage per incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. Under the secondary financial protection system, NEE is subject to retrospective assessments of up to $  1.0 billion   ($  509 million   for FPL), plus any applicable taxes, per incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S., payable at a rate not to exceed $  152 million   ($  76 million   for FPL) per incident per year. NEE and FPL are contractually entitled to recover a proportionate share of such assessments from the owners of minority interests in Seabrook, Duane Arnold and St. Lucie Unit No. 2, which approximates $  15 million  , $  38 million   and $  19 million  , plus any applicable taxes, per incident, respectively. 
    
  NEE participates in a nuclear insurance mutual company that provides $  2.75 billion   of limited insurance coverage per occurrence per site for property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning risks at its nuclear plants and a sublimit of   $1.5 billion   for non-nuclear perils. The proceeds from such insurance, however, must first be used for reactor stabilization and site decontamination before they can be used for plant repair. NEE also participates in an insurance program that provides limited coverage for replacement power costs if a nuclear plant is out of service for an extended period of time because of an accident. In the event of an accident at one of NEE's or another participating insured's nuclear plants, NEE could be assessed up to $  186 million    
  
   111 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

($  112 million   for FPL), plus any applicable taxes, in retrospective premiums in a policy year. NEE and FPL are contractually entitled to recover a proportionate share of such assessments from the owners of minority interests in Seabrook, Duane Arnold and St. Lucie Unit No. 2, which approximates $  3 million  , $  5 million   and $  4 million  , plus any applicable taxes, respectively. 
    
  Due to the high cost and limited coverage available from third-party insurers, NEE does not have property insurance coverage for a substantial portion of either its transmission and distribution property or natural gas pipeline assets. Should FPL's future storm restoration costs exceed the reserve amount established through the issuance of storm-recovery bonds by a VIE in 2007, FPL may recover storm restoration costs, subject to prudence review by the FPSC, either through surcharges approved by the FPSC or through securitization provisions pursuant to Florida law. In February 2017, the FPSC approved FPL's request to recover through an interim surcharge the 2016 eligible storm restoration costs that exceeded the reserve amount. See Note 1 - Securitized Storm-Recovery Costs, Storm Fund and Storm Reserve. 
    
  In the event of a loss, the amount of insurance available might not be adequate to cover property damage and other expenses incurred. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from customers in the case of FPL, would be borne by NEE and FPL and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 

14. Segment Information 
    
  NEE's reportable segments are FPL, a rate-regulated electric utility, and NEER, a competitive energy business. Corporate and Other represents other business activities and eliminating entries. NEE's operating revenues derived from the sale of electricity represented approximately   90%  ,   92%   and   91%   of NEE's operating revenues for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. Approximately   2%   of operating revenues were from foreign sources for each of the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . At each of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , approximately   3%   of long-lived assets were located in foreign countries. 
    
  NEE's segment information is as follows: 

_________________________ 
           (a) 
    Interest expense allocated from NEECH is based on a deemed capital structure of   70%   debt. For this purpose, the deferred credit associated with differential membership interests sold by NEER subsidiaries is included with debt. Residual NEECH corporate interest expense is included in Corporate and Other. 
              (b) 
    NEER includes PTCs that were recognized based on its tax sharing agreement with NEE. See Note 1 - Income Taxes. 

112 

Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

15. Summarized Financial Information of NEECH 
    
  NEECH, a   100%   owned subsidiary of NEE, provides funding for, and holds ownership interests in, NEE's operating subsidiaries other than FPL. NEECH s debentures and junior subordinated debentures including those that were registered pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NEE. Condensed consolidating financial information is as follows: 
    
  Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Represents primarily FPL and consolidating adjustments. 
       
  Condensed Consolidating Statements of Comprehensive Income 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Represents primarily FPL and consolidating adjustments. 

113 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Represents primarily FPL and consolidating adjustments. 

114 

     Table of Contents  
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Represents primarily FPL and consolidating adjustments. 
     
   115 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Concluded) 
    
  16. Quarterly Data (Unaudited) 
    
  Condensed consolidated quarterly financial information is as follows: 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    In the opinion of NEE and FPL management, all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring accruals necessary to present a fair statement of the amounts shown for such periods, have been made. Results of operations for an interim period generally will not give a true indication of results for the year. 
              (b) 
    The sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal the total for the year due to rounding. 
              (c) 
    Amounts were restated to reflect the adoption in the second quarter of 2016 of an accounting standards update resulting in an increase to net income and net income attributable to NEE of   $17 million  , and an increase to earnings per share attributable to NEE, basic and assuming dilution, of   $0.04  . See Note 10 - Stock-Based Compensation.  
              (d) 
    The sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal the total for the year due to rounding and changes in weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. 
     
   116 

Table of Contents  

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
    
  None 

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 
    
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  As of   December 31, 2016  , each of NEE and FPL had performed an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including NEE's and FPL's chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of each company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)). Based upon that evaluation, the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of each of NEE and FPL concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of   December 31, 2016  . 
    
  Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
           (a) 
    Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
       
  See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
    
           (b) 
    Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
       
  See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
    
           (c) 
    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
       
  NEE and FPL are continuously seeking to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations and of their internal controls. This results in refinements to processes throughout NEE and FPL. However, there has been no change in NEE's or FPL's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) that occurred during NEE's and FPL's most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, NEE's or FPL's internal control over financial reporting. 

Item 9B.  Other Information 
    
  None 
  
   117 

Table of Contents  

PART III 

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    
  The information required by this item will be included under the headings "Business of the Annual Meeting," "Information About NextEra Energy and Management" and "Corporate Governance and Board Matters" in NEE's Proxy Statement which will be filed with the SEC in connection with the   2017   Annual Meeting of Shareholders (NEE's Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference, or is included in Item 1. Business - Executive Officers of NEE. 
    
  NEE has adopted the NextEra Energy, Inc. Code of Ethics for Senior Executive and Financial Officers (the Senior Financial Executive Code), which is applicable to the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer and other senior executive and financial officers. The Senior Financial Executive Code is available under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations section of NEE s internet website at www.nexteraenergy.com. Any amendments or waivers of the Senior Financial Executive Code which are required to be disclosed to shareholders under SEC rules will be disclosed on the NEE website at the address listed above. 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation  
    
  The information required by this item will be included in NEE's Proxy Statement under the headings "Executive Compensation" and "Corporate Governance and Board Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    
  The information required by this item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management will be included in NEE's Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About NextEra Energy and Management" and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
  Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
    
  NEE's equity compensation plan information as of   December 31, 2016   is as follows: 
                                   Plan Category 
      
    Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights  
  (a) 
      
    Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights  
  (b) 
      
    Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a))  
  (c) 
      Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
      
    4,479,039 
      
     (a)   
    $ 
    71.08 
      
     (b)   
    9,383,195 
      
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 

Total 
      
    4,479,039 

$ 
    71.08 

9,383,195 

__________________________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes an aggregate of 2,505,208 outstanding options, 1,747,538 unvested performance share awards (at maximum payout), 16,564 deferred fully vested performance shares and 183,989 deferred stock awards (including future reinvested dividends) under the NextEra Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan and former LTIP, and 25,740 fully vested shares deferred by directors under the NextEra Energy, Inc. 2007 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan and its predecessor, the FPL Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan. 
              (b) 
    Relates to outstanding options only. 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
    
  The information required by this item, to the extent applicable, will be included in NEE's Proxy Statement under the heading "Corporate Governance and Board Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference. 

118 

Table of Contents  

Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
    
  NEE   - The information required by this item will be included in NEE's Proxy Statement under the heading "Audit-Related Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
  FPL   - The following table presents fees billed for professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates (collectively, Deloitte   Touche) for the fiscal years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2015  . The amounts presented below reflect allocations from NEE for FPL's portion of the fees, as well as amounts billed directly to FPL. 

______________________ 
           (a) 
    Audit fees consist of fees billed for professional services rendered for the audit of FPL's and NEE's annual consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year, the reviews of the financial statements included in FPL's and NEE's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q during the fiscal year and the audit of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, comfort letters, consents, and other services related to SEC matters and services in connection with annual and semi-annual filings of NEE's financial statements with the Japanese Ministry of Finance. 
              (b) 
    Audit-related fees consist of fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of FPL's and NEE's consolidated financial statements and are not reported under audit fees. These fees primarily related to agreed-upon procedures and attestation services. 
               (d) 
    All other fees consist of fees for products and services other than the services reported under the other named categories. In 2016 and 2015, these fees related to training.    
       
  In accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Audit Committee Charter and the Audit Committee's pre-approval policy for services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm, all services performed by Deloitte   Touche are approved in advance by the Audit Committee, except for audits of certain trust funds where the fees are paid by the trust. Audit and audit-related services specifically identified in an appendix to the pre-approval policy are pre-approved by the Audit Committee each year. This pre-approval allows management to request the specified audit and audit-related services on an as-needed basis during the year, provided any such services are reviewed with the Audit Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Any audit or audit-related service for which the fee is expected to exceed $250,000, or that involves a service not listed on the pre-approval list, must be specifically approved by the Audit Committee prior to commencement of such service. In addition, the Audit Committee approves all services other than audit and audit-related services performed by Deloitte   Touche in advance of the commencement of such work. The Audit Committee has delegated to the Chair of the committee the right to approve audit, audit-related, tax and other services, within certain limitations, between meetings of the Audit Committee, provided any such decision is presented to the Audit Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting. At each Audit Committee meeting (other than meetings held to review earnings materials), the Audit Committee reviews a schedule of services for which Deloitte   Touche has been engaged since the prior Audit Committee meeting under existing pre-approvals and the estimated fees for those services. In   2016   and   2015  , none of the amounts presented above represent services provided to NEE or FPL by Deloitte   Touche that were approved by the Audit Committee after services were rendered pursuant to Rule 2-01(c)(7)(i)(C) of Regulation S-X     (which provides for a waiver of the otherwise applicable pre-approval requirement if certain conditions are met). 

119 

     Table of Contents  

PART IV 

Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

Page(s) 
      (a) 
    1. 
    Financial Statements 

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    61 

Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    62 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    63 

NEE: 

Consolidated Statements of Income 
    64 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
    65 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 
    66 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
    67 

Consolidated Statements of Equity 
    68 

FPL: 

Consolidated Statements of Income 
    69 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 
    70 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
    71 

Consolidated Statements of Common Shareholder's Equity 
    72 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    73   -   116 

2. 
    Financial Statement Schedules - Schedules are omitted as not applicable or not required. 

3. 
    Exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) 

Certain exhibits listed below refer to "FPL Group" and "FPL Group Capital," and were effective prior to the change of the name FPL Group, Inc. to NextEra Energy, Inc., and of the name FPL Group Capital Inc to NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc., during 2010. 

120 

     Table of Contents  

121 

     Table of Contents  

122 

     Table of Contents  

123 

     Table of Contents  

124 

     Table of Contents  

125 

     Table of Contents  

126 

     Table of Contents  

______________________ 
  *  Incorporated herein by reference 
  ** Schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. NEE will furnish the omitted schedules to the SEC upon request. 
    
  NEE and FPL agree to furnish to the SEC upon request any instrument with respect to long-term debt that NEE and FPL have not filed as an exhibit pursuant to the exemption provided by Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. 

Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary 
    
  Not applicable 
  
   127 

Table of Contents  

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 
    
  NextEra Energy, Inc. 
    
               JAMES L. ROBO 
      James L. Robo 
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

Date:   February 23, 2017 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 
    
  Signature and Title as of   February 23, 2017  : 
    
                   JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      
    TERRELL KIRK CREWS, II 
      John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance 
  and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    Terrell Kirk Crews, II 
  Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting 
  Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 

Directors: 
    
                   SHERRY S. BARRAT 
      
    AMY B. LANE 
      Sherry S. Barrat 

Amy B. Lane 
      JAMES L. CAMAREN 
      
    RUDY E. SCHUPP 
      James L. Camaren 

Rudy E. Schupp 

JOHN L. SKOLDS 
      Kenneth B. Dunn 

John L. Skolds 
      NAREN K. GURSAHANEY 
      
    WILLIAM H. SWANSON 
      Naren K. Gursahaney 

William H. Swanson 
      KIRK S. HACHIGIAN 
      
    HANSEL E. TOOKES, II 
      Kirk S. Hachigian 

Hansel E. Tookes, II 
      TONI JENNINGS 

Toni Jennings 

128 

     Table of Contents  

FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 
    
  Florida Power   Light Company 
    
               ERIC E. SILAGY 
      Eric E. Silagy 
  President and Chief Executive Officer and Director 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

Date:   February 23, 2017 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 
    
  Signature and Title as of   February 23, 2017  : 
    
                   JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      
    KIMBERLY OUSDAHL 
      John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance 
  and Chief Financial Officer and Director 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    Kimberly Ousdahl 
  Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 

Director: 
    
               JAMES L. ROBO 
      James L. Robo 

Supplemental Information to be Furnished With Reports Filed Pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by Registrants Which Have Not Registered Securities Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
    
  No annual report, proxy statement, form of proxy or other proxy soliciting material has been sent to security holders of FPL during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016  . 
  
   129 

<EX-4.CC>
 2
 nee-12312016ex4cc.htm
 EXHIBIT 4.CC

Exhibit 

Exhibit 4(cc) 

Amendment   (this    Amendment   ), dated November 9, 2016 (the    Amendment Effective Date   ), by NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as FPL Group Capital Holdings Inc), a Florida corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the    Corporation   ), and NextEra Energy, Inc. (formerly known as FPL Group, Inc.), a Florida corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the    Guarantor   ), to the Replacement Capital Covenant, dated September 19, 2006 (the    Replacement Capital Covenant   ), entered into by the Corporation and the Guarantor in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant). 
  Recitals 
  A.        On September 19, 2006, the Corporation and the Guarantor entered into the Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with the issuance of, among other things, the Corporation s Series B Enhanced Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066. 
  B.        Pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Replacement Capital Covenant, the Corporation and the Guarantor may amend the Replacement Capital Covenant without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt if such amendment is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation delivers to such Holders a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt. 
  C.        The intent and effect of this Amendment is to (i) recognize, for purposes of calculating qualified replacement capital under the Replacement Capital Covenant, the proceeds from the issuance of any and all securities specified in Section 2 of the Replacement Capital Covenant after the Amendment Effective Date during the 365 days prior to the applicable redemption, repurchase or purchase date and (ii) allow the Corporation to select the Covered Debt upon a Redesignation Date. 
  NOW, THEREFORE,   the Corporation and the Guarantor hereby amend the Replacement Capital Covenant as set forth in this Amendment. 
  SECTION 1.   Definitions  .  Capitalized terms used herein (including in the Recitals) and not otherwise amended or defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Replacement Capital Covenant. 
  SECTION 2.   Amendments of the Replacement Capital Covenant  .  The Replacement Capital Covenant is hereby amended in accordance with Section 4(b) thereof as follows: 
  (A)        by replacing the phrase  during the 180 days prior to the applicable redemption, repurchase or purchase date  with the phrase  during the 365 days prior to the applicable redemption, repurchase or purchase date  each time this phrase appears in Section 2 thereof; 
  (B)        by replacing the phrase  during the 180 days prior to the date of redemption or repurchase  with the phrase  during the 365 days prior to the date of redemption or repurchase  in the definition of    Applicable Percentage    as set forth in Schedule I thereto; 
  (C)        by amending Section 3(b) thereof to read in its entirety as follows: 

(b) (i) During the period commencing on the earlier of (x) the date two years and 30 days prior to the final maturity date for the then effective Covered Debt and (y) the date on which the Corporation gives notice of redemption of the then effective Covered Debt, if such redemption is in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt would be less than $100,000,000, or (ii) if earlier than the date specified in clauses (x) and (y) of this Section 3(b)(i), on the date on which the Parent or the Corporation repurchases the then effective Covered Debt in whole or in part and, after giving effect to such repurchase, the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt would be less than $100,000,000, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures: 
    (A)        the Corporation shall identify each series of then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation and the Guarantor that is Eligible Debt; 
    (B)        the Corporation shall designate one of such series to be the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date; 
    (C)        the series of Eligible Debt that is determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to clause (B) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of Eligible Debt is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and 
    (D)        in connection with such identification of a new series of the Covered Debt, notice shall be given as provided for in Section 3(d) within the time frame provided for in such section.  
  (D)        by deleting Section 3(c) thereof in its entirety; 
  (E)        by amending the definition of the term    Eligible Debt    as set forth in Schedule I thereto to read in its entirety as follows: 
     Eligible Debt    means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or Eligible Senior Debt.  The Subordinated Debentures shall not be considered  Eligible Debt  for purposes of the Replacement Capital Covenant.  and 
  (F)        by amending the definition of the term    Eligible Subordinated Debt    as set forth in Schedule I thereto to read in its entirety as follows: 
     Eligible Subordinated Debt    means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer s then outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for 

2 

money borrowed that (i) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks senior to the Subordinated Debentures (or any guarantee thereof) and subordinate to the issuer s then outstanding series of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior, (ii) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (ii) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (i), (iii) and (iv) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (iii) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (iv) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents.  For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.  
  SECTION 3.   Miscellaneous  .  (a)  Except as expressly amended hereby, all of the provisions of the Replacement Capital Covenant continue in full force and effect. 
  (b)        This Amendment shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 

3 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the Corporation and the Guarantor have caused this Amendment to the Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written. 

NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. 

By: 
    ALDO E. PORTALES 
      Name:   Aldo E. Portales 
      Title:     Assistant Treasurer 

NextEra Energy, Inc. 

By: 
    ALDO E. PORTALES 
      Name:   Aldo E. Portales 
      Title:     Assistant Treasurer 

4 

</EX-4.CC>

<EX-4.HH>
 3
 nee-12312016ex4hh.htm
 EXHIBIT 4.HH

Exhibit 

Exhibit 4(hh) 

Amendment   (this    Amendment   ), dated November 9, 2016 (the    Amendment Effective Date   ), by NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as FPL Group Capital Holdings Inc), a Florida corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the    Corporation   ), and NextEra Energy, Inc. (formerly known as FPL Group, Inc.), a Florida corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the    Guarantor   ), to (i) the Replacement Capital Covenant, dated June 12, 2007 (the    June     2007 Replacement Capital Covenant   ), entered into by the Corporation and the Guarantor in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined in the June 2007 Replacement Capital Covenant) and (ii) the Replacement Capital Covenant, dated September 18, 2007 (the    September     2007 Replacement Capital Covenant    and together with the June 2007 Replacement Capital Covenant, the    Replacement Capital Covenants   ), entered into by the Corporation in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined in each of the Replacement Capital Covenants). 
  Recitals 
  A.        On June 12, 2007, the Corporation and the Guarantor entered into the June 2007 Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with the issuance of the Corporation s Series C Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067. 
  B.         On September 18, 2007, the Corporation and the Guarantor entered into the September 2007 Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with the issuance of, among other things, the Corporation s Series D Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067. 
  C.        Pursuant to Section 4(b) of each of the Replacement Capital Covenants, the Corporation and the Guarantor may amend such Replacement Capital Covenant without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt if such amendment is not adverse to the rights of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation delivers to such Holders a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment is not adverse to the rights of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt. 
  D.        The intent and effect of this Amendment is to (i) recognize, for purposes of calculating qualified replacement capital under each Replacement Capital Covenant, the proceeds from the issuance of any and all securities specified in Section 2 of such Replacement Capital Covenant after the Amendment Effective Date during the 365 days prior to the date of delivery of a notice of redemption or applicable date of purchase or defeasance and (ii) allow the Corporation to select the Covered Debt upon a Redesignation Date. 
  NOW, THEREFORE,   the Corporation and the Guarantor hereby amend each Replacement Capital Covenant as set forth in this Amendment. 
  SECTION 1.   Definitions  .  Capitalized terms used herein (including in the Recitals) and not otherwise amended or defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the respective Replacement Capital Covenant. 
  SECTION 2.   Amendments of the Replacement Capital Covenants  .  Each Replacement Capital Covenant is hereby amended in accordance with Section 4(b) thereof as follows: 
  (A)        by amending Section 3(b) thereof to read in its entirety as follows: 

(b)        On, or during the 30-day period immediately preceding, any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures: 
    (A)        the Corporation shall identify each series of then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation and the Guarantor that is Eligible Debt; 
    (B)        the Corporation shall designate one of such series to be the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date; 
    (C)        the series of Eligible Debt that is determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to clause (B) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of Eligible Debt is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and 
    (D)        in connection with such identification of a new series of the Covered Debt, notice shall be given as provided for in Section 3(d) within the time frame provided for in such section.  
  (B)        by deleting Section 3(c) thereof in its entirety; 
  (C)        by amending the definition of the term    Eligible Debt    as set forth in Schedule I thereto to read in its entirety as follows: 
     Eligible Debt    means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or Eligible Senior Debt.  The Subordinated Debentures shall not be considered  Eligible Debt  for purposes of the Replacement Capital Covenant.  and 
  (D)        by amending the definition of the term    Measurement Period    as set forth in Schedule I thereto to read in its entirety as follows: 
     Measurement Period    with respect to any redemption, purchase or defeasance of Subordinated Debentures, means the period (i) beginning on the date that is 365 days prior to the date of delivery of notice of such redemption (such date of delivery, the    notice date   ) or the date of such purchase or defeasance and (ii) ending on such notice date or the date of such purchase or defeasance. 
  SECTION 3.   Miscellaneous  . (a)  Except as expressly amended hereby, all of the provisions of each Replacement Capital Covenant continue in full force and effect. 
  (b)        This Amendment shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the Corporation and the Guarantor have caused this Amendment to the Replacement Capital Covenants to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written. 

NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. 

By: 
    ALDO E. PORTALES 
      Name:  Aldo E. Portales 
      Title:    Assistant Treasurer 

NextEra Energy, Inc. 

By: 
    ALDO E. PORTALES 
      Name:  Aldo E. Portales 
      Title:    Assistant Treasurer 

3 

</EX-4.HH>

<EX-10.LL>
 4
 nee-12312016ex10ll.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.LL

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10(ll) 

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION SUMMARY 
  (Effective January 1, 2017) 
    
                 Annual Retainer 
      (payable quarterly in common stock or cash) 
    $90,000 

Board or Committee meeting fee 
    $2,000/meeting 

Audit Committee Chair retainer (annual) 
       (payable quarterly) 
    $20,000 

Lead Director retainer (annual) 
       (payable quarterly) 
    $25,000 

Other Committee Chair retainer (annual) 
       (payable quarterly) 
    $15,000 

Annual grant of restricted stock 
       (under 2007 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan) 
    That number of shares determined by dividing $145,000 by closing price of NextEra Energy common stock on effective date of grant (rounded up to the nearest 10 shares) 

Miscellaneous 
      Travel and Accident Insurance (including spouse coverage) 

Travel and related expenses while on Board business, and actual administrative or similar expenses incurred for Board or Committee business, are paid or reimbursed by the Company.  Directors may travel on Company aircraft in accordance with the Company s Aviation Policy (primarily to or from Board meetings and while on Board business; in limited circumstances for other reasons     if the Company would incur little if any incremental cost, space is available and the aircraft is already in use for another authorized purpose - may be accompanied by immediate family members when space is available). 

Directors may participate in the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan. 

Directors may participate in the Company s matching gift program, which matches gifts to educational institutions to a maximum of $10,000 per donor. 

</EX-10.LL>

<EX-10.YY>
 5
 nee-12312016ex10yy.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.YY

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10(yy) 

Execution Version 
    
  LIMITED FORBEARANCE AGREEMENT 
  This Limited Forbearance Agreement (this    Agreement   ), dated as of December 1, 2016 is entered into by and among (a) (i) Energy Future Holdings Corp., a Texas corporation (   EFH Corp.    (ii) Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC (   EFIH   ), a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of EFH Corp.; (iii) EFIH Finance Inc. (   EFIH Finance  ,  and together with EFIH, the    EFIH Debtors   ), a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of EFIH; and (iv) each of EFH Corp. s other direct and indirect subsidiaries listed on the signature pages hereto (each of the foregoing entities identified in subclauses (i) through (iv) an    EFH/EFIH Debtor    and, collectively, the    EFH/EFIH Debtors   ) and (b) NextEra Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation (   NEE   ) (each of the foregoing, a    Party    and, collectively, the    Parties   ).   
  RECITALS 
  WHERAS  , The EFH/EFIH Debtors, NEE and certain funds and accounts advised or sub-advised by Fidelity Management   Research Company or its affiliates (collectively, the    Fidelity Funds   ) that hold or direct the vote of Claims against the EFH/EFIH Debtors, excluding EFIH First Lien DIP Claims, are parties to an Amended and Restated Plan Support Agreement dated as of September 19, 2016 (the    PSA    
  WHEREAS  , pursuant to Section 8.03(d) of the PSA, if the Bankruptcy Court fails to enter the Alternative E-Side Confirmation Order on or before December 15, 2016 (the    Confirmation Milestone   ), NEE will have the right to terminate the PSA as between all Parties;  
  WHEREAS  , on or shortly after the date hereof, the EFH/EFIH Debtors will file with the Bankruptcy Court an amended Alternative E-Side Disclosure Statement (the    Amended Alternative E-Side Disclosure Statement   ) and the amended Alternative E-Side Plan attached hereto as Exhibit A (the    Amended Alternative E-Side Plan    and 
  WHEREAS  , subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the EFH/EFIH Debtors have requested that NEE forbear from taking a Termination Action; 
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants hereinafter contained, the Parties agree as follows: 
  1.  Definitions  .  All capitalized terms used in this Agreement and the Recitals hereto which are defined in the PSA and which are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the PSA.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings indicated below and in the Recitals and Preamble hereof: 
    
     Forbearance Period    shall mean the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the earlier of (i) February 22, 2017 and (ii) the occurrence of a Forbearance Termination Event. 
     Forbearance Termination Event    shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the Bankruptcy Court shall not have entered an order approving the Amended Alternative E-Side Disclosure Statement as containing "adequate information" as required by section 1125 of  

the Bankruptcy Code on or before January 5, 2017; or (ii) the EFH/EFIH Debtors (a) file any plan of reorganization or other restructuring document for the EFH/EFIH Debtors other than the Amended Alternative E-Side Plan or (b) amend, modify or supplement in any manner the Amended Alternative E-Side Plan, in each case, without the express written consent of NEE, which consent shall     be given or withheld in NEE's sole discretion.  
     Termination Action    shall mean the exercise by NEE of its right to terminate the PSA pursuant to Section 8.03(d) thereof.  
  2.  Limited Forbearance  .  For the duration of the Forbearance Period, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, NEE agrees that it shall forbear from taking a Termination Action. If the Bankruptcy Court enters an order confirming the Amended Alternative E-Side Plan and authorizing all of the transactions and agreements contemplated by the Amended Alternative E-Side Plan with respect to the EFH/EFIH Debtors (the   "Alternative E-Side Confirmation Order"  ) at any time during the Forbearance Period, then NEE hereby agrees to permanently forbear from taking a Termination Action. 
    
  3.  Reference to, and Effect on, the PSA  .  The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Agreement shall not, except to the extent of the limited forbearance set forth in Section 2 hereof, operate as a forbearance or waiver of any right, power or remedy of NEE under the PSA, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the PSA.  NEE expressly reserves all of its rights and remedies with respect to any other present or future event, circumstance or breach arising under the PSA.  The PSA remains in full force and effect in all respects, notwithstanding the execution and delivery of this Agreement. 
    
  4.  Representations and Warranties  .  Each of the Parties hereby represents and warrants (with respect to itself) that as of the date hereof: 
    
  (a)  Such party is a corporation, company or other business entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization; 
    
  (b)  Such party has full power, authority and legal right       to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to perform its obligations and agreements hereunder; 
    
  (c)  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, company or other business entity action on the part of such party; and this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such party and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as its enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally or by general principles of equity; 
    
  (d)  The execution, delivery and performance by such party of this Agreement do not and will not violate or conflict with (i) the organizational documents of such party, (ii) any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or governmental instrumentality or arbitration panel applicable to it, or (iii) any provision of  

2 

any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which such party is a party or by which any of its assets or properties is bound or affected. 
    
  5.  Incorporation by Reference.    The terms and provisions of Sections 10.04, 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.11 and 10.15 of the PSA are hereby incorporated by reference as though set forth herein,   mutatis mutandis  . 
    
  6.  Miscellaneous  . 
    
  (a)  This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the benefit of, each of the Parties and its respective successors and permitted assigns.  The terms and provisions of this Agreement are for the purpose of defining the relative rights and obligations of each of the Parties with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, and there shall be no third party beneficiaries of any of the terms and provisions of this Agreement. 
    
  (b)  Section headings in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement for any other purpose. 
    
  (c)  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, if any provision contained in this Agreement is in conflict with, or inconsistent with, any provision in the PSA, the provision contained in this Agreement shall govern and control. 
    
  (d)  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier or email transmission of a pdf file shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. 
    
  7.  Survival  .  All provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, the representations and warranties in Section 4) shall survive and shall be effective both during and after the Forbearance Period, except to the extent that any provision hereof shall expressly limit or restrict the applicability of any term or provision of this Agreement solely to the Forbearance Period. 
    
  8.  Amendments  .  This Agreement may be amended with (and only with) the written consent of each of the Parties.  
    
  [Remainder of page intentionally left blank.] 

3 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement on the day and date first written above. 
    
  NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 
    
  CHARLES E. SIEVING  ______________________ 
  Name: Charles E. Sieving 
  Title:  Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
    
  Address: 
    
  NextEra Energy, Inc. 
  700 Universe Blvd. 
  Juno Beach, FL 33408 

E-mail address(es): charles.sieving@nexteraenergy.com 
  Telephone: (561) 691-7575 
  Facsimile:  (561) 694-3337 

[Signature Page to Limited Forbearance Agreement] 
    
  4 

EFH/EFIH DEBTOR SIGNATURE PAGES 
    
  Energy Future Holdings Corp. 
  Ebasco Services of Canada Limited 
  EEC Holdings, Inc. 
  EECI, Inc. 
  EFH Australia (No. 2) Holdings Company 
  EFH Finance (No. 2) Holdings Company 
  EFH FS Holdings Company 
  EFH Renewables Company LLC 
  EFIH Finance Inc. 
  Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC 
  Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC 
  Generation Development Company LLC 
  LSGT Gas Company LLC 
  LSGT SACROC, Inc. 
  NCA Development Company LLC 
  TXU Receivables Company 

ANDREW M. WRIGHT  _______________________________________ 
  Name: Andrew M. Wright 
  Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

[Signature Page to Limited Forbearance Agreement] 

5 

EXHIBIT A 

Intentionally Omitted 

</EX-10.YY>

<EX-12.A>
 6
 nee-12312016ex12a.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12(a) 

NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND 
  RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS   (a)   

__________________ 
    
           (a) 
    NextEra Energy, Inc. has no preference equity securities outstanding; therefore, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges is the same as the ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends. 

</EX-12.A>

<EX-12.B>
 7
 nee-12312016ex12b.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12(b) 

FLORIDA POWER   LIGHT COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND 
  RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS   (a)   

__________________ 
    
           (a) 
    Florida Power   Light Company has no preference equity securities outstanding; therefore, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges is the same as the ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends. 

</EX-12.B>

<EX-21>
 8
 nee-12312016ex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF NEXTERA ENERGY, INC. 

NextEra Energy, Inc.'s principal subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 are listed below. 
                       
    Subsidiary 
      
    State or 
  Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation 
  or Organization 

1. 
    Florida Power   Light Company (100%-owned) 
      
    Florida 
      2. 
    NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (100%-owned) 
      
    Florida 
      3. 
    NextEra Energy Resources, LLC   (a)(b)  
      
    Delaware 
      4. 
    Palms Insurance Company, Limited   (b)  
      
    Cayman Islands 

__________________ 
           (a) 
    Includes 864 subsidiaries that operate in the United States and 187 subsidiaries that operate in foreign countries in the same line of business as NextEra Energy Resources, LLC. 
              (b) 
    100%-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 nee-12312016ex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of our reports dated   February 23, 2017  , relating to the consolidated financial statements of NextEra Energy, Inc. and subsidiaries (NextEra Energy) and Florida Power   Light Company and subsidiaries (FPL), and the effectiveness of NextEra Energy's and FPL's internal control over financial reporting, appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NextEra Energy and FPL for the year ended   December 31, 2016  : 

DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  Boca Raton, Florida 
  February 23, 2017    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 10
 nee-12312016ex31a.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(a) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I, James L. Robo, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended   December 31, 2016   of NextEra Energy, Inc. (the registrant); 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:     February 23, 2017 
               JAMES L. ROBO 
      James L. Robo 
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
  of NextEra Energy, Inc. 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 11
 nee-12312016ex31b.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(b) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I, John W. Ketchum, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended   December 31, 2016   of NextEra Energy, Inc. (the registrant); 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:     February 23, 2017    
               JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance 
  and Chief Financial Officer 
  of NextEra Energy, Inc. 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-31.C>
 12
 nee-12312016ex31c.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.C

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(c) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I, Eric E. Silagy, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended   December 31, 2016   of Florida Power   Light Company (the registrant); 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:     February 23, 2017    
               ERIC E. SILAGY 
      Eric E. Silagy 
  President and Chief Executive Officer 
  of Florida Power   Light Company 

</EX-31.C>

<EX-31.D>
 13
 nee-12312016ex31d.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.D

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(d) 
    
  Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification 

I, John W. Ketchum, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Form 10-K for the annual period ended   December 31, 2016   of Florida Power   Light Company (the registrant); 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:     February 23, 2017    
               JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance 
  and Chief Financial Officer 
  of Florida Power   Light Company 

</EX-31.D>

<EX-32.A>
 14
 nee-12312016ex32a.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32(a) 

Section 1350 Certification 

We, James L. Robo and John W. Ketchum, certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1) 
    The Annual Report on Form 10-K of NextEra Energy, Inc. (the registrant) for the annual period ended   December 31, 2016   (Report) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant. 

Dated:    February 23, 2017    
               JAMES L. ROBO 
      James L. Robo 
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
  of NextEra Energy, Inc. 

JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance 
  and Chief Financial Officer 
  of NextEra Energy, Inc. 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the registrant and will be retained by the registrant and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 
    
  The foregoing certification is being furnished as an exhibit to the Report pursuant to Item 601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, accordingly, is not being filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the Report and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (whether made before or after the date of the Report, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing). 

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 15
 nee-12312016ex32b.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32(b) 

Section 1350 Certification 

We, Eric E. Silagy and John W. Ketchum, certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1) 
    The Annual Report on Form 10-K of Florida Power   Light Company (the registrant) for the annual period ended   December 31, 2016   (Report) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant. 

Dated:     February 23, 2017    
               ERIC E. SILAGY 
      Eric E. Silagy 
  President and Chief Executive Officer of 
  Florida Power   Light Company 

JOHN W. KETCHUM 
      John W. Ketchum 
  Executive Vice President, Finance 
  and Chief Financial Officer 
  of Florida Power   Light Company 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the registrant and will be retained by the registrant and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 
    
  The foregoing certification is being furnished as an exhibit to the Report pursuant to Item 601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, accordingly, is not being filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the Report and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (whether made before or after the date of the Report, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing). 

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99>
 16
 nee-12312016ex99.htm
 EXHIBIT 99

Exhibit 

Exhibit 99 
    
  IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT 
  FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE 

EIGHTH AMENDED JOINT PLAN OF REORGANIZATION  
  OF ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP.,   ET AL  .,  
  PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 11 OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE 

Counsel to the Debtors and Debtors in Possession 

Co-Counsel to the Debtor Energy Future Holdings Corp  . 
    
  --and-- 
    
  _________________________ 
            1   
    The last four digits of Energy Future Holdings Corp. s tax identification number are 8810.  The location of the debtors  service address is 1601 Bryan Street, Dallas, Texas 75201.  Due to the large number of debtors in these chapter 11 cases, which are being jointly administered, a complete list of the debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein.  A complete list of such information may be obtained on the website of the debtors  claims and noticing agent at http://www.efhcaseinfo.com. 

Co-Counsel to the TCEH Debtors 
    
  Dated:  February 17, 2017 

ii 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

ARTICLE I. DEFINED TERMS, RULES OF INTERPRETATION, COMPUTATION OF TIME, AND GOVERNING 
                        LAW 
    4 
        
    A. 
    Defined Terms. 
    4 
        
    B. 
    Rules of Interpretation. 
    48 
        
    C. 
    Computation of Time. 
    49 
        
    D. 
    Governing Law. 
    50 
        
    E. 
    Reference to Monetary Figures. 
    50 
      ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS, DIP CLAIMS, AND PRIORITY TAX CLAIMS 
    50 
        
    A. 
    Administrative Claims. 
    50 
        
    B. 
    DIP Claims. 
    52 
        
    C. 
    Priority Tax Claims. 
    53 
      ARTICLE III. CLASSIFICATION AND TREATMENt OF CLAIMS AND INTERESTS 
    53 
        
    A. 
    Classification of Claims and Interests. 
    53 
        
    B. 
    Treatment of Claims and Interests. 
    56 
        
    C. 
    Special Provision Governing Unimpaired Claims. 
    78 
        
    D. 
    Elimination of Vacant Classes. 
    78 
        
    E. 
    Confirmation Pursuant to Sections 1129(a)(10) and 1129(b) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
    78 
        
    F. 
    Controversy Concerning Impairment. 
    78 
        
    G. 
    Subordinated Claims and Interests. 
    78 
      ARTICLE IV. MEANS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN 
    79 
        
    A. 
    General Settlement of Claims and Interests. 
    79 
        
    B. 
    Restructuring Transactions. 
    79 
        
    C. 
    Sources of Consideration for Plan Distributions. 
    85 
        
    D. 
    Intercompany Account Settlement. 
    87 
        
    E. 
    Competitive Tax Sharing Agreement. 
    88 
        
    F. 
    Oncor Tax Sharing Agreement. 
    88 
        
    G. 
    Corporate Existence. 
    88 
        
    H. 
    Vesting of Assets in the Reorganized Debtors. 
    88 
        
    I. 
    Cancelation of Existing Securities and Agreements. 
    88 
        
    J. 
    Corporate Action. 
    90 
        
    K. 
    New Organizational Documents. 
    90 
        
    L. 
    Directors and Officers of the Reorganized Debtors. 
    91 
        
    M. 
    Section 1146 Exemption. 
    91 
        
    N. 
    Director, Officer, Manager, and Employee Liability Insurance. 
    91 
        
    O. 
    Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan. 
    92 
        
    P. 
    Employee Obligations. 
    92 
        
    Q. 
    Preservation of Causes of Action. 
    92 
        
    R. 
    Payment of Certain Fees. 
    93 
        
    S. 
    Treatment of Certain Claims of the PBGC and Pension Plan. 
    94 
        
    T. 
    Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement. 
    95 
        
    U. 
    Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement. 
    95 
      ARTICLE V. TREATMENT OF EXECUTORY CONTRACTS AND UNEXPIRED LEASES 
    95 
        
    A. 
    Assumption and Rejection of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
    95 
        
    B. 
    Claims Based on Rejection of Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases. 
    97 
        
    C. 
    Cure of Defaults for Assumed Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
    97 
        
    D. 
    Preexisting Obligations to the Debtors under Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
    97 
        
    E. 
    Indemnification Obligations. 
    98 
        
    F. 
    Insurance Policies. 
    98 
        
    G. 
    Modifications, Amendments, Supplements, Restatements, or Other Agreements. 
    99 
        
    H. 
    Reservation of Rights. 
    99 

I. 
    Nonoccurrence of Effective Date. 
    99 
        
    J. 
    Contracts and Leases Entered Into After the Petition Date. 
    99 
      ARTICLE VI. PROVISIONS GOVERNING DISTRIBUTIONS 
    99 
        
    A. 
    Timing and Calculation of Amounts to Be Distributed. 
    99 
        
    B. 
    Rights and Powers of EFH Plan Administrator Board. 
    102 
        
    C. 
    Disbursing Agent. 
    102 
        
    D. 
    Rights and Powers of Disbursing Agent. 
    103 
        
    E. 
    Delivery of Distributions and Undeliverable or Unclaimed Distributions. 
    103 
        
    F. 
    Manner of Payment. 
    105 
        
    G. 
    SEC Registration/Exemption. 
    105 
        
    H. 
    Compliance with Tax Requirements. 
    106 
        
    I. 
    No Postpetition or Default Interest on Claims. 
    106 
        
    J. 
    Setoffs and Recoupment. 
    106 
        
    K. 
    No Double Payment of Claims. 
    107 
        
    L. 
    Claims Paid or Payable by Third Parties. 
    107 
      ARTICLE VII. PROCEDURES FOR RESOLVING CONTINGENT,  UNLIQUIDATED, AND DISPUTED CLAIMS 
    107 
        
    A. 
    Allowance of Claims. 
    107 
        
    B. 
    Claims Administration Responsibilities. 
    108 
        
    C. 
    Estimation of Claims. 
    108 
        
    D. 
    Adjustment to Claims without Objection. 
    109 
        
    E. 
    Time to File Objections to Claims or Interests. 
    109 
        
    F. 
    Disallowance of Claims. 
    109 
        
    G. 
    Amendments to Proofs of Claim. 
    109 
        
    H. 
    Reimbursement or Contribution. 
    109 
        
    I. 
    No Distributions Pending Allowance. 
    109 
        
    J. 
    Distributions After Allowance. 
    110 
        
    K. 
    Preservation of Makewhole Appellate Rights and Litigaiton of Makewhole Claims. 
    110 
      ARTICLE VIII. SETTLEMENT, RELEASE, INJUNCTION, AND RELATED PROVISIONS 
    112 
        
    A. 
    Discharge of Claims and Termination of Interests. 
    112 
        
    B. 
    Release of Liens. 
    112 
        
    C. 
    Releases by the Debtors. 
    113 
        
    D. 
    Releases by Holders of Claims and Interests. 
    114 
        
    E. 
    Exculpation. 
    115 
        
    F. 
    Injunction. 
    116 
        
    G. 
    Liabilities to, and Rights of, Governmental Units. 
    117 
        
    H. 
    Environmental Law Matters. 
    117 
        
    I. 
    Protections Against Discriminatory Treatment. 
    118 
        
    J. 
    Recoupment. 
    118 
        
    K. 
    Document Retention. 
    118 
      ARTICLE IX. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CONFIRMATION AND CONSUMMATION OF THE PLAN 
    119 
        
    A. 
    Conditions Precedent to Confirmation of a Plan as to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
    119 
        
    B. 
    Conditions Precedent to Confirmation of a Plan as to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors. 
    120 
        
    C. 
    Conditions Precedent to the TCEH Effective Date. 
    121 
        
    D. 
    Conditions Precedent to the EFH Effective Date. 
    123 
        
    E. 
    Waiver of Conditions. 
    125 
        
    F. 
    Effect of Failure of Conditions. 
    125 
        
    G. 
    Certain IRS Matters. 
    126 

2 

3 

INTRODUCTION 
  The Debtors (as defined herein) propose this eighth amended joint plan of reorganization (the    Plan   ) for the resolution of the outstanding claims against, and interests in, the Debtors pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code.  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Article I.A of the Plan.  Holders of Claims and Interests should refer to the Disclosure Statement for a discussion of the Debtors  history, businesses, assets, results of operations, historical financial information, events during the Chapter 11 Cases, and projections of future operations, as well as a summary and description of the Plan and certain related matters.  The Debtors are the proponents of the Plan within the meaning of section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code.  The Chapter 11 Cases have been consolidated for procedural purposes only and are being jointly administered pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court.  Accordingly, the Plan constitutes a separate plan of reorganization for each of the Debtors.  For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan may be confirmed and consummated as to each of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors separate from, and independent of, confirmation and/or consummation of the Plan as to any of the EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors. 
  ALL HOLDERS OF CLAIMS AND INTERESTS ENTITLED TO VOTE TO ACCEPT OR REJECT THE PLAN ARE ENCOURAGED TO READ THE PLAN AND THE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT IN THEIR ENTIRETY BEFORE VOTING TO ACCEPT OR REJECT THE PLAN. 

ARTICLE I. 
  DEFINED TERMS, RULES OF INTERPRETATION, 
  COMPUTATION OF TIME, AND GOVERNING LAW 
           A. 
    Defined Terms. 
     As used in the Plan, capitalized terms have the meanings set forth below. 
  1.           2005 Oncor Transfer    means those certain 2005 transactions pursuant to which the equity of Oncor s predecessor, TXU Electric Delivery Company LLC, was dividended from EFCH s predecessor, TXU US Holdings Company, to EFH Corp. s predecessor, TXU Corp. 
  2.           2007 Acquisition    means the transactions that occurred in October 2007 in which TEF and Texas Holdings and their direct and indirect equity holders became the direct and indirect equity holders of each of the Debtors. 
  3.           2011 Amend and Extend Transactions    means those certain transactions effectuated by TCEH and EFCH in April 2011, including the TCEH Credit Amendment and the issuance of the TCEH First Lien Notes. 
  4.           2013 Revolver Extension    means those certain transactions effectuated by TCEH and EFCH in January 2013, including the maturity extension of revolving credit commitments due 2013, the Incremental Amendment Agreement, and the incurrence of the TCEH 2012 Incremental Term Loans. 
  5.           2015 Compensation Order    means the order entered by the Bankruptcy Court on December 17, 2014 [D.I. 3052], authorizing the Debtors to implement the Debtors  2015 compensation programs. 
  6.           2016 Compensation Order    means the order entered by the Bankruptcy Court on February 18, 2016 [D.I. 7883] authorizing the Debtors to implement the Debtors  2016 compensation programs. 
  7.           503(b)(9) Claim    means a Claim or any portion thereof entitled to administrative expense priority pursuant to section 503(b)(9) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  8.           Additional Interest    means additional interest payable on the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Notes, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes, as applicable, under the registration rights agreements associated with such notes so long as EFIH has not registered such notes in accordance with the Securities Act, on the terms set forth in such registration rights agreements. 
    
  4 

9.           Adjusted Company Cash Amount    means the  Adjusted Company Cash Amount  as defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  10.           Administrative Claim    means a Claim for costs and expenses of administration of the Estates under sections 503(b) (including 503(b)(9) Claims), 507(b), or 1114(e)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code, other than DIP Claims, including:  (a) the actual and necessary costs and expenses incurred after the Petition Date through the Effective Date of preserving the applicable Estates and operating the businesses of the Debtors; (b) Allowed Professional Fee Claims; (c) all fees and charges assessed against the Estates under chapter 123 of title 28 of the United States Code, 28 U.S.C.    1911-1930; and (d) all Intercompany Claims authorized pursuant to the Cash Management Order.  
  11.           Administrative Claims Bar Date    means the deadline for Filing requests for payment of Administrative Claims, which: (a) with respect to General Administrative Claims, shall be 30 days after the Effective Date; and (b) with respect to Professional Fee Claims, shall be 45 days after the Effective Date. 
  12.           Affiliate    has the meaning set forth in section 101(2) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  13.           Allowed    means with respect to any Claim or Interest, except as otherwise provided herein:  (a) a Claim or Interest as to which no objection has been Filed prior to the Claims Objection Deadline and that is evidenced by a Proof of Claim or Interest, as applicable, timely Filed by the applicable Bar Date or that is not required to be evidenced by a Filed Proof of Claim or Interest, as applicable, under the Plan, the Bankruptcy Code, or a Final Order; (b) a Claim or Interest that is scheduled by the Debtors as neither disputed, contingent, nor unliquidated, and as for which no Proof of Claim or Interest, as applicable, has been timely Filed in an unliquidated or a different amount; or (c) a Claim or Interest that is upheld or otherwise allowed (i) pursuant to the Plan, (ii) in any stipulation that is approved by the Bankruptcy Court, (iii) pursuant to any contract, instrument, indenture, or other agreement entered into or assumed in connection herewith, or (iv) by Final Order (including any such Claim to which the Debtors had objected or which the Bankruptcy Court had disallowed prior to such Final Order);   provided  ,   however  , that, without prejudice to the releases set forth in Article VIII.B-D, and except as otherwise set forth herein, the consummation of the Plan and the occurrence of the Effective Date is not intended to impair the right of any Holder or any of the Indenture Trustees to prosecute an appeal from, or otherwise petition for review of, any order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court (or any other court of competent jurisdiction) disallowing any Claim;   provided, further,   for the avoidance of doubt, all parties reserve all rights in connection with any such appeal or petition, including (a) the right of any of the Reorganized Debtors to move for the dismissal of any such appeal or petition on grounds of equitable mootness or any other prudential basis and (b) the right of any Holder or any of the Indenture Trustees to oppose any such motion on any grounds, including on grounds that the relief sought in the appeal or petition is contemplated by or provided for under the Plan.  Except as otherwise specified in the Plan or any Final Order, the amount of an Allowed Claim shall not include interest or other charges on such Claim from and after the Petition Date.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Claim of any Entity subject to section 502(d) of the Bankruptcy Code shall be deemed Allowed unless and until such Entity pays in full the amount that it owes such Debtor or Reorganized Debtor, as applicable. 
  14.           Allowed EFIH General Unsecured Claim    means, as set forth more fully in the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, (a) the Charging Lien Advance; (b) the principal amount outstanding of the EFIH Unsecured Notes, in the amount of $1,568 million; (c) any accrued but unpaid prepetition interest, in the amount of $81 million; and (d) any accrued but unpaid postpetition interest at the Federal Judgment Rate, in the amount of $5 million (based on an assumed EFH Effective Date of April 30, 2017, subject to adjustment based on the actual EFH Effective Date) plus any additional amounts, including postpetition interest at the Federal Judgment Rate, accruing on such Allowed EFIH General Unsecured Claim from the EFH Effective Date until the Allowed EFIH General Unsecured Claim has been paid in full pursuant to the terms of this Plan, but excluding any recovery on account of asserted Makewhole Claims. 
  15.           Alternative E-Side Plan    means  Alternative E-Side Plan,  as such term is defined in the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement. 
  16.           Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement    means that certain Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement, by and among Oncor Electric, Reorganized TCEH, and OpCo, to be entered into on or 

5 

before the TCEH Effective Date, which shall govern the rights and obligations of each party thereto with respect to certain employment matters, which shall be in form and substance acceptable to the Debtors, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and the Plan Sponsor, and which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  17.           Amended Plan Supplement    means an amended Plan Supplement filed by the Debtors on January 27, 2017 [D.I. 10729], and an amended Plan Supplement filed by the Debtors on February 7, 2017 [D.I. 10780], as may be further amended, modified, or supplement from time to time, and which shall include (a) the governance and mechanics of the Pre-Effective Date Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, (b) the governance, mechanics, and composition, of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee after the EFH Effective Date, each of which shall be negotiated in good faith by and among the EFIH Supporting Unsecured Creditors, (c) further details on each category of the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, (d) any changes to the fee review process for reviewing the fees of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee set forth in the Plan Supplement, including specifically when the fee review process for pre-Effective Date fees and expenses will begin and the fee review process for post-Effective Date fees and expenses (including the timeline for the payment of such fees and expenses), (e) the basis for the EFH/EFIH Debtors  assertion that the EFIH Claims Reserve should be funded to pay interest (i) only for three years and (ii) if not already commenced, when the EFIH Debtors, in consultation with the Initial Supporting Creditors, intend to commence any challenge to the Makewhole Claims following the Third Circuit s ruling, and (f) a further revised non-binding and good-faith estimate of each category of the EFIH Claims Reserve that has been modified from the disclosure set forth in the EFH Disclosure Statement. 
  18.           Approval Order    means the order (which may be the TCEH Confirmation Order), which shall (a) be in form and substance acceptable to the Debtors and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and the Plan Sponsor, (b) authorize and direct EFH Corp., EFIH, and Reorganized TCEH (and, in the case of the Tax Matters Agreement, EFIH Finance) to enter into (i) the Tax Matters Agreement, (ii) the Transition Services Agreement, if any, (iii) the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement, and (iv) the Separation Agreement; and (c) contain terms and conditions consistent with each of the agreements in the foregoing clause (b). 
  19.           Assumed Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease    means any EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease or any TCEH Assumed Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease. 
  20.           Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List    means, as applicable, the EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List or the TCEH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List. 
  21.           AST T    means American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, LLC. 
  22.           Auditor    means the  Auditor  as defined in, and designated to conduct the Post-Closing Audit in accordance with, the Merger Agreement. 
  23.           Bankruptcy Code    means title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C.    101 1532, as amended from time to time. 
  24.           Bankruptcy Court    means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware having jurisdiction over the Chapter 11 Cases or any other court having jurisdiction over the Chapter 11 Cases, including, to the extent of the withdrawal of any reference under 28 U.S.C.   157, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. 
  25.           Bankruptcy Rules    means the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure promulgated under section 2075 of the Judicial Code and the general, local, and chambers rules of the Bankruptcy Court. 
  26.           Bar Date    means the applicable date established by the Bankruptcy Court by which respective Proofs of Claims and Interests must be Filed. 
  27.           Basis Step-Up    means the net increase in the aggregate U.S. federal income tax basis of the assets transferred or deemed transferred to the Preferred Stock Entity pursuant to the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale equal 

6 

to the aggregate utilized amount of the net losses, net operating losses, and net capital losses (but only to the extent such net capital losses are deductible under applicable tax law against gain recognized on the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale) (in each case, including carryovers) available to the EFH Group as of the TCEH Effective Date (determined (a) as if the  consolidated year  (within the meaning of Section 1503(e)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code) of the EFH Group ended on the TCEH Effective Date, and (b) without regard to any income, gain, loss or deduction generated as a result of the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale or transactions occurring outside the ordinary course of business on the TCEH Effective Date after the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale (other than any Deferred Intercompany and ELA Items (if any) and other transactions expressly contemplated by the Plan, any plan support agreement, or any definitive documentation related thereto)), such amount to be determined in accordance with the relevant procedures under the Plan Support Agreement, as modified consistent with the Tax Matters Agreement;   provided, however  , that any such Basis Step-Up shall not exceed the built-in gain in the assets subject to the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale. 
  28.           BNY    means, collectively:  (a) BNYM; and (b) BNYMTC.     
  29.           BNYM    means The Bank of New York Mellon. 
  30.           BNYMTC    means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. 
  31.           Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday, or  legal holiday  (as defined in Bankruptcy Rule 9006(a)). 
  32.           Cash    means cash and cash equivalents, including bank deposits, checks, and other similar items in legal tender of the U.S., less the amount of any outstanding checks or transfers at such time.  
  33.           Cash Collateral Order    means the   Final Order (A) Authorizing Use of Cash Collateral for Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC and Certain of its Debtor Affiliates, (B) Granting Adequate Protection, and (C) Modifying the Automatic Stay   [D.I. 855], as further amended, modified, and supplemented from time to time, including D.I. 5922 and D.I. 5923.   
  34.           Cash Management Order    means the   Final Order (A) Authorizing the Debtors to (I) Continue Using Their Existing Cash Management System, (II) Maintain Existing Bank Accounts and Business Forms, and (III) Continue Using Certain Investment Accounts; (B) Authorizing Continued Intercompany Transactions and Netting of Intercompany Claims; and (C) Granting Postpetition Intercompany Claims Administrative Expense Priority   [D.I. 801]. 
  35.           Causes of Action    means any claims, interests, damages, remedies, causes of action, demands, rights, actions, suits, obligations, liabilities, accounts, defenses, offsets, powers, privileges, licenses, liens, indemnities, guaranties, and franchises of any kind or character whatsoever, whether known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, existing or hereinafter arising, contingent or non-contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, secured or unsecured, assertable, directly or derivatively, matured or unmatured, suspected or unsuspected, in contract, tort, law, equity, or otherwise.  Causes of Action also include:  (a) all rights of setoff, counterclaim, or recoupment and claims under contracts or for breaches of duties imposed by law; (b) the right to object to or otherwise contest Claims or Interests; (c) claims pursuant to sections 362, 510, 542, 543, 544 through 550, or 553 of the Bankruptcy Code; and (d) such claims and defenses as fraud, mistake, duress, and usury, and any other defenses set forth in section 558 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  36.           Centerview    means Centerview Partners LLC. 
  37.           Chapter 11 Cases    means, collectively:  (a) when used with reference to a particular Debtor, the case pending for that Debtor under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court; and (b) when used with reference to all the Debtors, the procedurally consolidated and jointly administered chapter 11 cases pending for the Debtors in the Bankruptcy Court. 

7 

38.           Charging Lien Advance    means the amount advanced and paid to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee pursuant to that certain   Order Approving Additional Relief in Connection with Settlement of Certain EFIH PIK Noteholder Claims   [D.I. 7353] and any future amounts advanced and paid to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee pursuant to the charging lien under the EFIH Unsecured Note Indentures. 
  39.           Claim    means any claim, as defined in section 101(5) of the Bankruptcy Code, against any of the Debtors. 
  40.           Claims and Noticing Agent    means Epiq Bankruptcy Solutions, LLC, retained as the Debtors  notice and claims agent pursuant to the   Order Approving the Retention and Appointment of Epiq Bankruptcy Solutions as the Claims and Noticing Agent for the Debtors   [D.I. 321]. 
  41.           Claims Objection Deadline    means the later of:  (a) the date that is 180 days after the Effective Date; and (b) such other date as may be fixed by the Bankruptcy Court, after notice and hearing, upon a motion Filed before the expiration of the deadline to object to Claims or Interests. 
  42.           Claims Register    means the official register of Claims maintained by the Claims and Noticing Agent. 
  43.           Class    means a category of Claims or Interests as set forth in Article III of the Plan. 
  44.           CM/ECF    means the Bankruptcy Court s Case Management and Electronic Case Filing system. 
  45.           Collective Professional Fee Claims    means Professional Fee Claims incurred by a Professional for the collective benefit of two or more of TCEH, EFH Corp., and EFIH.     
  46.           Committees    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH Committee; and (b) the EFH/EFIH Committee. 
  47.           Company Disclosure Letter    means  Company Disclosure Letter  as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  48.           Competitive Tax Sharing Agreement    means that certain Federal and State Income Tax Allocation Agreement Among the Members of the Energy Future Holdings Corp. Consolidated Group (as amended and restated from time to time), dated May 15, 2012, by and among EFH Corp. and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. 
  49.           Computershare Trust    means, collectively:  (a) Computershare Trust Company, N.A.; and (b) Computershare Trust Company of Canada. 
  50.           Confirmation    means the entry of the EFH Confirmation Order and/or the TCEH Confirmation Order, as applicable, on the docket of the Chapter 11 Cases. 
  51.           Confirmation Date    means EFH Confirmation Date and/or the TCEH Confirmation Date, as applicable. 
  52.           Confirmation Hearing    means the one or more hearings held by the Bankruptcy Court to consider Confirmation of the Plan as to one or more Debtors pursuant to section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  53.           Confirmation Order    means the EFH Confirmation Order and/or the TCEH Confirmation Order, as applicable.  The Confirmation Order may be comprised of one or more orders entered by the Bankruptcy Court. 
  54.           Conflict Matters    means for each of EFH Corp., EFIH, and EFCH/TCEH, as defined in the respective resolutions of the applicable Board of Directors or Board of Managers dated November 7, 2014 and December 9, 2014 including the determination of whether any matter constitutes a  Conflict Matter.  

8 

55.           Consummation    means the occurrence of the EFH Effective Date and/or the TCEH Effective Date, as applicable. 
  56.           Contributed TCEH Debtors    means those one or more TCEH Debtors mutually agreed on by EFH Corp. and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors whose equity will be contributed by Reorganized TCEH to the Preferred Stock Entity in the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, if any. 
  57.           Contribution    means, as part of the Spin-Off, immediately following the cancelation of Claims against the TCEH Debtors, the transfer to Reorganized TCEH by TCEH and the EFH Debtors of their applicable portion of the TCEH Assets, in exchange for the consideration described in Article IV.B.2 of the Plan. 
  58.           Cure Claim    means a Claim based upon the Debtors  defaults on an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease at the time such Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease is assumed by the Debtors pursuant to section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  59.           Dealer Managers    means the dealer managers under that certain dealer manager agreement approved under the EFIH First Lien Principal Settlement Order. 
  60.           Debtor    means one of the Debtors, in its individual capacity as a debtor and debtor in possession in its respective Chapter 11 Case.  As used herein, the term  Debtor  shall refer to the TCEH Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the TCEH Debtors, shall refer to the EFH Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the EFH Debtors, shall refer to the EFIH Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the EFIH Debtors, and shall refer to the EFH Shared Services Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
  61.           Debtor Intercompany Claim    means a Claim by any Debtor against any other Debtor. 
  62.           Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH Debtors; (b) the EFIH Debtors; (c) the EFH Debtors; and (d) the EFH Shared Services Debtors.  As used herein, the term  Debtors  shall refer to the TCEH Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the TCEH Debtors, shall refer to the EFH Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the EFH Debtors, shall refer to the EFIH Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the EFIH Debtors, and shall refer to the EFH Shared Services Debtors when referencing the plan of reorganization of the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
  63.           Deferred Intercompany and ELA Items    means intercompany items (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-13(b)(2)) or any excess loss account (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-19(a)), in each case, of any subsidiary of TCEH (other than TCEH Finance) that are accelerated into income as a result of the Distribution pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-13(d) or Section 1.1502-19. 
  64.           DIP Agents    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH DIP Agent; and (b) the EFIH First Lien DIP Agent. 
  65.           DIP Agreements    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement; and (b) the EFIH First Lien DIP Credit Agreement. 
  66.           DIP Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH DIP Claims; and (b) the EFIH First Lien DIP Claims. 
  67.           DIP Facilities    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH DIP Facility; (b) the EFIH First Lien DIP Facility; and (c) the Refinanced TCEH DIP Facility. 
  68.           DIP Lenders    means the DIP Agents, the TCEH DIP L/C Issuers, the banks, financial institutions, and other lenders party to the DIP Facilities from time to time, and each arranger, bookrunner, syndication agent, manager, and documentation agent under the DIP Facilities;   provided  ,   however  , that as used in 

9 

definition of  Released Parties  and  Releasing Parties,  the definition of DIP Lenders shall include Citibank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative and collateral agent under the Refinanced TCEH DIP Facility, and such letter of credit issuers, banks, financial institutions, and other lenders party to such facility from time to time, and each other arranger, bookrunner, syndication agent, manager, and documentation agent under the Refinanced TCEH DIP Facility. 
  69.           DIP Orders    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH DIP Order; and (b) the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  70.           Direct Professional Fee Claims    means Professional Fee Claims incurred by a Professional for the benefit of only one of the following:  (a) the EFH Debtors; (b) the EFIH Debtors; or (c) the TCEH Debtors.  
  71.           Disbursing Agent    means the Reorganized Debtors or the Entity or Entities authorized to make or facilitate distributions under the Plan as selected by the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, in consultation with the Plan Sponsor and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors,   provided   that (a) the EFH Notes Trustee shall be the Disbursing Agent for Classes A4, A5, A6, and B5; (b) the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee shall be the Disbursing Agent for distributions to Holders of EFIH Unsecured Note Claims; (c) the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, or such other Disbursing Agent pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, shall be the Disbursing Agent for distributions to Holders of EFIH First Lien Note Claims; and (d) the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, or other such Disbursing Agent pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, shall be the Disbursing Agent for distributions to Holders of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims. 
  72.           Disclosure Statement    means, as applicable, the TCEH Disclosure Statement and/or the EFH Disclosure Statement. 
  73.           Disclosure Statement Order    means, as applicable, the TCEH Disclosure Statement Order and/or the EFH Disclosure Statement Order. 
  74.           Disinterested Directors and Managers    means the disinterested directors and managers of EFH Corp., EFIH, and EFCH/TCEH. 
  75.           Disinterested Directors Settlement    means the settlement negotiated by and among the Disinterested Directors and Managers regarding Debtor Intercompany Claims set forth in the Initial Plan. 
  76.           Disputed    means with regard to any Claim or Interest, a Claim or Interest that is not yet Allowed. 
  77.           Distribution    means, as part of the Spin-Off, and following the Contribution and the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, distribution of (a) the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock; (b) the net Cash proceeds of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt (or at the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors  election, all or a portion of such New Reorganized TCEH Debt) and the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, if any, (c) the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any), and (d) proceeds from the TCEH Settlement Claim, if determined as of the TCEH Effective Date, and to the extent not determined as of the TCEH Effective Date, the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim; provided, that following the TCEH Effective Date, Reorganized TCEH will nominally hold the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim but the Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims will hold all legal and equitable entitlement to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim, in the case of clauses (a), (b), and (c) above, received in the Contribution to Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims. 
  78.           Distribution Date    means the Effective Date and any Periodic Distribution Date thereafter. 
  79.           Distribution Record Date    means other than with respect to any publicly-held securities, the record date for purposes of making distributions under the Plan on account of Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests (other than DIP Claims), which date shall be the date that is five (5) Business Days after the Confirmation Date, as applicable, or such other date as designated in an order of the Bankruptcy Court;   provided  ,   however  , that the Distribution Record Date for all Holders of EFH Unexchanged Note Claims, EFH Legacy Note Claims, and 

10 

EFH LBO Note Claims shall be November 20, 2016;   provided further  ,   however  , that the Distribution Record Date for the Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims shall be the date that is five (5) Business Days after the TCEH Confirmation Date, or such other date as designated in an order of the Bankruptcy Court, regardless of whether distributions on account of such Claims are made on the TCEH Effective Date or the EFH Effective Date. 
  80.           DTC    means the Depository Trust Company. 
  81.           EFCH    means Energy Future Competitive Holdings Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. 
  82.           EFCH 2037 Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFCH 2037 Notes. 
  83.           EFCH 2037 Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated December 1, 1995, by and between EFCH, successor to TXU US Holdings Company, as issuer, and the EFCH 2037 Notes Trustee. 
  84.           EFCH 2037 Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the EFCH Fixed 2037 Notes; and (b) the EFCH Floating 2037 Notes. 
  85.                EFCH 2037 Notes Trustee    means BNYMTC, or any successor thereto, as trustee under the EFCH 2037 Note Indenture. 
  86.           EFCH Fixed 2037 Notes    means the 8.175% fixed rate notes due January 30, 2037, issued by EFCH pursuant to the EFCH 2037 Note Indenture. 
  87.           EFCH Floating 2037 Notes    means the 1.245% floating rate notes due January 30, 2037, issued by EFCH pursuant to the EFCH 2037 Note Indenture.  
  88.           EFCH/TCEH    means, collectively:  (a) EFCH; and (b) TCEH.  
  89.           Effective Date    means the EFH Effective Date and/or the TCEH Effective Date, as applicable with respect to any particular Debtor. 
  90.           Effective Dates    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Effective Date; and (b) the TCEH Effective Date.     
  91.           EFH 2019 Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated November 16, 2009, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  92.           EFH 2019 Notes    means the 9.75% unsecured notes due October 15, 2019, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH 2019 Note Indenture. 
  93.           EFH 2020 Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated January 12, 2010, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  94.           EFH 2020 Notes    means the 10.0% unsecured notes due January 15, 2020, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH 2020 Note Indenture.     
  95.           EFH Beneficiary Claims    means, collectively: (a) the Allowed EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims; (b) the Allowed EFH Unexchanged Note Claims; and (c) the Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp.;   provided  ,   however  , that any of the foregoing Claims shall cease to constitute EFH Beneficiary Claims if the Class comprised of such Claims fails to accept or fails to reject the Plan consistent with the Voting Indication (as such term is defined in the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement), if any. 
    
  11 

96.           EFH Committee Settlement Escrow Account    means an escrow account in an amount equal to $9,450,000.00, which shall be funded from and reduce the TCEH Cash Payment dollar for dollar;   provided   that such escrow account shall provide that distributions from such account shall be made   first   to Reorganized TCEH in an amount equal to the EFH Committee Settlement Payment Amount, and   second  , to the extent the EFH Committee Settlement Escrow Account exceeds the EFH Committee Settlement Payment Amount, such excess amounts shall be distributed in a manner consistent with the distribution of the TCEH Cash Payment in accordance with Article III.B.30 and III.B.31 of the Plan. 
  97.            EFH Committee Settlement Payment Amount    means an amount equal to 25% of the TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions. 
  98.           EFH Confirmation Date    means the date upon which the Bankruptcy Court enters the EFH Confirmation Order on the docket of the Chapter 11 Cases, within the meaning of Bankruptcy Rules 5003 and 9021. 
  99.           EFH Confirmation Order    means one or more orders of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Plan with respect to one or more EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors pursuant to section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code.  The EFH Confirmation Order shall be reasonably acceptable to the EFIH DIP Agents and acceptable to the Plan Sponsor. 
  100.           EFH Corp.    means Energy Future Holdings Corp., a Texas corporation. 
  101.           EFH Corp. Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the Allowed EFH Legacy Note Claims; (b) the Allowed EFH Swap Claims; (c) the Allowed EFH LBO Note Primary Claims; (d) the Allowed TCEH Settlement Claim; (e) the Allowed EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims; (f) the Allowed EFH Unexchanged Note Claims; (g) the Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp.; (h) the Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp; and (i) the Allowed Tex-La Guaranty Claims;   provided  ,   however  , that if the Holders of Allowed EFH LBO Note Primary Claims receive a recovery on account of their Allowed Class B5 EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims, the Allowed EFH LBO Note Primary Claims shall not be included in this definition of EFH Corp. Claims;   provided further  ,   however  , that if the Holders of Allowed Tex-La Guaranty Claims receive full recovery on account of their Allowed Class C1 Other Secured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors, the Allowed Tex-La Guaranty Claims shall not be included in this definition of EFH Corp. Claims. 
  102.           EFH Corporate Services    means EFH Corporate Services Company, a Texas corporation. 
  103.           EFH Creditor Recovery Pool    means, collectively: (i) the Reorganized EFH Class A Common Stock as set forth in Article IV.B.9 of the Plan, which shall, at the Merger Closing, convert to the right to receive the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment in accordance with the Merger Agreement; (ii) any Cash remaining in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account after payment in full of (a) Allowed Claims against EFIH Debtors, and (b) Allowed Administrative Claims and Allowed Priority Claims against the EFH Debtors;   provided  ,   however  , that the Holders of Allowed EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims shall receive Cash instead of NextEra Class A Common Stock on account of their Claims (including any TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions distributed to such Holders of EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims);   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that (x) the amount of the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment shall be reduced proportionately on account of such Cash payment and (y) to the extent necessary to satisfy the continuity of interest requirement, the amount of Cash in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, with respect to the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Recovery Pool, shall be reduced by reducing the Merger Sub Cash Amount by such amount, with a corresponding equal increase in the amount of the NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment or NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment, determined consistently with the provisions of Article IV.B.9 of the Plan and Section 1.12 of the Merger Agreement;   provided, further, however  , that the amount of Cash in the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool shall be limited to the amount of Cash that can be distributed to Holders of Claims against EFH Corp. while satisfying the continuity of interest requirements under section 368 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code;   provided, further, however  , that if there is a determination in advance of the EFH Effective Date that there is a reasonable risk that the amount of Cash in the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool would prevent the satisfaction of the continuity of interest requirement, a reduction to the Merger Sub Cash Amount, with a corresponding increase to the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment and/or NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment, shall be made in an amount determined consistently with 

12 

Article IV.B.9 of the Plan and Section 1.12 of the Merger Agreement;   provided, further, however  , that to the extent the amount of Cash in the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool would nevertheless cause a violation of the continuity of interest requirement (after accounting for the adjustments to the Merger Sub Cash Amount and the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment and/or NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment), such Cash will not be included in the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool; and (iii) any reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock or NextEra Class B Common Stock distributable from the Makewhole Stock Reserve to Holders of Claims against the EFH Debtors in accordance with Article IV.B.9 of the Plan and the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures. 
  104.           EFH Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim by an EFH Debtor against another EFH Debtor. 
  105.           EFH Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) EFH Corp.; (b) Ebasco Services of Canada Limited; (c) EEC Holdings, Inc.; (d) EECI, Inc.; (e) EFH Australia (No. 2) Holdings Company; (f) EFH Finance (No. 2) Holdings Company; (g) EFH FS Holdings Company; (h) EFH Renewables Company LLC; (i) Generation Development Company LLC; (j) LSGT Gas Company LLC; (k) LSGT SACROC, Inc.; (l) NCA Development Company LLC; and (m) TXU Receivables Company. 
  106.           EFH Disclosure Statement    means (a) with respect to all Holders of Claims against, and Interests in, the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors other than Holders of Class B3, Class B4, and Class B6 Claims, the   Disclosure Statement for the Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp.,   et al.  , Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with Respect to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors  , dated September 21, 2016 [D.I. 9616], including all exhibits and schedules thereto, as approved pursuant to the applicable EFH Disclosure Statement Order and (b) with respect to Holders of Class B3, Class B4, and Class B6 Claims, the   Disclosure Statement for the Seventh Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp.  , et al.,   Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with Respect to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors  , dated January 4, 2017, [D.I. 10564], including all exhibits and schedules thereto, as approved pursuant to the applicable EFH Disclosure Statement Order . 
  107.           EFH Disclosure Statement Order    means (a) with respect to all Holders of Claims against, and Interests in, the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors other than Holders of Class B3, Class B4, and Class B6 Claims, the   Order (A) Approving the EFH/EFIH Disclosure Statement, (B) Establishing the Voting Record Date, Voting Deadline, and Other Dates, (C) Approving Procedures for Soliciting, Receiving, and Tabulating Votes on the Plan and for Filing Objections to the Plan, and (D) Approving the Manner and Forms of Notice and Other Related Documents   [D.I. 9585] and (b) with respect to Holders of Class B3, Class B4, and Class B6 Claims, the   Supplemental Order (A) Binding Holders of Claims and Interests to Their Prior Ballots, Pursuant to Section 1127 of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rule 3019, (B) Approving the Revised EFH/EFIH Disclosure Statement, (C) Approving the Procedures and Timeline for the Limited Solicitation of Votes on the Plan, and (D) Approving the Manner and Forms of Notice Related Thereto   [D.I. 10560]. 
  108.           EFH Effective Date    means, with respect to the Plan, the date after the EFH Confirmation Date selected by (a) the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor and (b) the Plan Sponsor, on which:  (i) no stay of the EFH Confirmation Order is in effect; and (ii) all conditions precedent to the EFH Effective Date specified in Article IX.D have been satisfied or waived (in accordance with Article IX.E).  
  109.            EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases    means those Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases to be assumed by the Reorganized EFH and Reorganized EFIH, as set forth on the EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List. 
  110.            EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List    means the list of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases to be assumed (with proposed cure amounts), as determined by the Plan Sponsor, in its sole discretion, the form of which shall be included in the Plan Supplement;   provided  ,   however  , that notwithstanding Article V.F. herein, the following contracts to the extent such contracts are executory contracts, shall be deemed assumed by Reorganized EFH and Reorganized EFIH, as applicable:  (a) the Insurance Policies that provide coverage to the TCEH Debtors or EFH Shared Services Debtors, (b) D O Insurance Policies at EFH 

13 

Corp. for the benefit of current or former directors, managers, officers, and, employees, and (c) any D O priority agreement between EFH Corp. and the sponsoring institution of certain directors. 
  111.           EFH/EFIH Committee    means the statutory committee of unsecured creditors of EFH Corp., EFIH, EFIH Finance, and EECI, Inc., appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases pursuant to section 1102 of the Bankruptcy Code by the U.S. Trustee on October 27, 2014, the membership of which may be reconstituted from time to time. 
  112.           EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement    means the Settlement   Support Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2015, by and among EFH Corp., EFIH, EFIH Finance, EEC Holdings, Inc., EECI, Inc., LSGT Gas Company LLC, LSGT SACROC, Inc., TCEH, the EFH/EFIH Committee, the EFH Notes Trustee, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, the Original Plan Sponsors, and the TCEH Committee, as approved under the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement Order. 
  113.           EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement Order    means the   Order Approving Settlement Among Debtors, EFH Committee, EFH Notes Trustee, and Certain Other Parties   [D.I. 7143], entered by the Bankruptcy Court on November 25, 2015. 
  114.           EFH/EFIH Committee Standing Motion    means the   Motion of the EFH Official Committee for Entry of an Order Granting Derivative Standing and Authority to Prosecute and Settle Claims on Behalf of the Luminant Debtors  Estates   [D.I. 3605]. 
  115.           EFH/EFIH Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Debtors; and (b) the EFIH Debtors. 
  116.            EFH/EFIH Distribution Account    means collectively, the following interest-bearing escrow accounts collectively consisting of (a) the Merger Sub Cash Amount, (b) the Cash distributed to satisfy Allowed EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims, (c) the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Cash Pool, and (d) any other amounts to be funded into the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account pursuant to the terms of the Plan, Merger Agreement, or the Settlement Approval Order, provided that neither the Plan Sponsor, Merger Sub, the EFH/EFIH Debtors, nor Reorganized EFH or Reorganized EFIH shall have any obligation to fund any amounts other than as set forth in the Plan or Merger Agreement, as applicable, which accounts shall be administered by the EFH Plan Administrator Board.  The EFH/EFIH Distribution Account shall include (a) a general escrow account, into which the Merger Sub Cash Amount shall be funded; (b) the segregated EFIH Claims Reserve that will be established on the EFH Effective Date if the EFIH Settlement Approval Order is not entered as of or on the EFH Effective Date; and (c) any segregated accounts within the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account established pursuant to a Reserve Order. 
  117.           EFH/EFIH Plan Supporters    means, collectively: (a) the Plan Sponsor; and (b) excluding the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors, all other parties to the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement and the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement. 
  118.           EFH/EFIH Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List    means the list of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases to be rejected, as determined by the Plan Sponsor, in its sole discretion, the form of which shall be included in the Plan Supplement.  
  119.           EFH Group    means the  affiliated group  (within the meaning of Section 1504(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code), and any consolidated, combined, aggregate, or unitary group under state or local law, of which EFH Corp. is the common parent. 
  120.           EFH LBO Note Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH LBO Note Primary Claims; and (b) the EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims. 
  121.           EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claim    means any Claim against EFIH derived from or based upon the EFH LBO Notes. 

14 

122.           EFH LBO Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated October 31, 2007, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, EFCH and EFIH as guarantors, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  123.           EFH LBO Note Primary Claim    means any Claim against EFH Corp. derived from or based upon the EFH LBO Notes. 
  124.           EFH LBO Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH LBO Senior Notes; and (b) the EFH LBO Toggle Notes. 
  125.           EFH LBO Senior Notes    means the 10.875% senior notes due November 1, 2017, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH LBO Note Indenture. 
  126.           EFH LBO Toggle Notes    means the 11.25%/12.00% toggle notes due November 1, 2017, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH LBO Note Indenture.  
  127.           EFH Legacy Note Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Legacy Series P Claims; (b) the EFH Legacy Series Q Claims; and (c) the EFH Legacy Series R Claims. 
  128.           EFH Legacy Note Indentures    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Legacy Series P Indenture; (b) the EFH Legacy Series Q Indenture; and (c) the EFH Legacy Series R Indenture. 
  129.           EFH Legacy Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Legacy Series P Notes; (b) the EFH Legacy Series Q Notes; and (c) the EFH Legacy Series R Notes. 
  130.           EFH Legacy Series P Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFH Legacy Series P Notes, excluding any Claims derived from or based upon EFH Legacy Series P Notes held by EFIH (if any). 
  131.           EFH Legacy Series P Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated November 1, 2004, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  132.           EFH Legacy Series P Notes    means the 5.55% Series P Senior Notes due November 15, 2014, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH Legacy Series P Indenture and related officer s certificate. 
  133.           EFH Legacy Series Q Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFH Legacy Series Q Notes, excluding any Claims derived from or based upon EFH Legacy Series Q Notes held by EFIH (if any). 
  134.           EFH Legacy Series Q First Supplemental Indenture    means that certain Supplemental Indenture, dated December 5, 2012, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  135.           EFH Legacy Series Q Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated November 1, 2004, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  136.           EFH Legacy Series Q Notes    means the 6.50% Series Q Senior Notes due November 15, 2024, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH Legacy Series Q Indenture and related officer s certificate. 
  137.           EFH Legacy Series R Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFH Legacy Series R Notes, excluding any Claims derived from or based upon EFH Legacy Series R Notes held by EFIH (if any). 
  138.           EFH Legacy Series R First Supplemental Indenture    means that certain Supplemental Indenture, dated December 5, 2012, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 

15 

139.           EFH Legacy Series R Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated November 1, 2004, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
  140.           EFH Legacy Series R Notes    means the 6.55% Series R Senior Notes due November 15, 2034, issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH Legacy Series R Indenture and related officer s certificate. 
  141.           EFH Non-Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) TXU Europe Limited; (b) TXU Eastern Finance (A) Ltd; (c) TXU Eastern Finance (B) Ltd; (d) TXU Finance (No. 2) Limited; (e) TXU Eastern Funding Company; (f) TXU Acquisitions Limited; (g) Humphreys   Glasgow Limited; (h) EFH Vermont Insurance Company; and (i) any other non-U.S., non-Debtor Entities. 
  142.           EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claim    means any Claim against the EFH Debtors derived from or based upon an EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Plan. 
  143.           EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Plan    means either: (a) a non-contributory, non-qualified pension plan that provides retirement benefits to participants whose tax qualified pension benefits are limited due to restrictions under the Internal Revenue Code and/or deferrals to other benefit programs; and/or (b) a contributory, non-qualified defined contribution plan that permits participants to voluntarily defer a portion of their base salary and/or annual incentive plan bonuses. 
  144.           EFH Note Indentures    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Legacy Note Indentures; (b) the EFH LBO Note Indenture; (c) the EFH 2019 Note Indenture; and (d) the EFH 2020 Note Indenture. 
  145.           EFH Notes Trustee    collectively means AST T, in its capacity as successor trustee to BNYMTC under the EFH Note Indentures.  
  146.           EFH Plan Administrator Board    shall be a one- or two-member board of directors comprised of a person or persons to be identified in the Plan Supplement as determined by the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors in their sole and absolute discretion, which board shall be appointed on or after the EFH Effective Date and tasked with directing the Disbursing Agent with respect to Cash distributions made on account of Allowed Claims asserted against the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors and shall not, for the avoidance of doubt, be authorized to direct the Disbursing Agent with respect to any Cash distributions made on account of Allowed Claims asserted against the TCEH Debtors or EFH Shared Services Debtors, if any. 
  147.           EFH Professional Fee Escrow Account    means an escrow account established and funded pursuant to Article II.A.2(b) of the Plan for Professional Fee Claims allocated to the EFH Debtors or the Reorganized EFH Debtors pursuant to pursuant to Article II.A.2(d) of the Plan. 
  148.           EFH Professional Fee Reserve Amount    means the total amount of Professional Fee Claims estimated to be allocated to the EFH Debtors or the Reorganized EFH Debtors in accordance with Article II.A.2(c) of the Plan. 
  149.           EFH Series N Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFH Series N Notes. 
  150.           EFH Series N Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated July 3, 2003, by and among EFH Corp., as issuer, and the EFH Series N Trustee. 
  151.           EFH Series N Notes    means the floating rate convertible notes due 2033 issued by EFH Corp. pursuant to the EFH Series N Note Indenture. 
  152.           EFH Series N Notes Trustee    means BNYMTC, in its capacity under the EFH Series N Notes. 
  153.           EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim by an EFH Shared Services Debtor against another EFH Shared Services Debtor. 

16 

154.           EFH Shared Services Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) EFH Corporate Services; (b) Dallas Power and Light Company, Inc.; (c) EFH CG Holdings Company LP; (d) EFH CG Management Company LLC; (e) Lone Star Energy Company, Inc.; (f) Lone Star Pipeline Company, Inc.; (g) Southwestern Electric Service Company, Inc.; (h) Texas Electric Service Company, Inc.; (i) Texas Energy Industries Company, Inc.; (j) Texas Power and Light Company, Inc.; (k) Texas Utilities Company, Inc.; (l) Texas Utilities Electric Company, Inc.; (m) TXU Electric Company, Inc.; (n) Brighten Energy LLC; and (o) Brighten Holdings LLC. 
  155.           EFH Swap Claim    means any Claim against EFH Corp. derived from or based upon the EFH Swaps. 
  156.           EFH Swaps    means those certain swaps entered into by EFH Corp. on an unsecured basis. 
  157.           EFH Unexchanged Notes Indentures    means, collectively: (a) the EFH 2019 Note Indenture; and (b) the EFH 2020 Note Indenture.     
  158.           EFH Unexchanged Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFH Unexchanged Notes. 
  159.           EFH Unexchanged Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH 2019 Notes; and (b) the EFH 2020 Notes. 
  160.           EFIH    means Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. 
  161.           EFIH Base Payment Amount    means the represented, accrued, and unpaid fees and expenses incurred as of the EFH Effective Date by the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee (including all reasonable professional fees and expenses). 
  162.           EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement    means the collateral trust agreement by and between EFIH, Delaware Trust Company, as successor collateral trustee to BNY, and the other Secured Debt Representatives from time to time party thereto dated as of November 16, 2009. 
  163.           EFIH Claims Reserve    means, if the Settlement Approval Order is not entered before the EFH Effective Date, the interest-bearing account established on the EFH Effective Date using the Merger Sub Cash Amount and Cash on hand at EFIH as of the EFH Effective Date, and excluding in all instances the Cash on hand at EFH Corp. as of the EFH Effective Date, and, without duplication, and excluding in all instances the Makewhole Stock Reserve, which shall consist of all available Merger Sub Cash Amount funds (subject to the limits identified in the immediately preceding proviso), less any amounts determined by the EFIH Debtors to be amounts necessary to satisfy General Administrative Claims asserted against the EFIH Debtors and Priority Claims asserted against the EFIH Debtors;   provided  ,   however  , that (a) any fees incurred by (1) the EFH/EFIH Debtors and (2) the Plan Sponsor, in an amount not to exceed $200,000, in each case arising from or related to any and all litigation and settlements relating to the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, during the period between the EFH Effective Date and the earlier of (A) the denial of the Settlement Approval Order and (B) entry of the Reserve Order, shall be satisfied, in full, from the EFIH Claims Reserve, (b) any payments required to be made to the Plan Sponsor pursuant to the Post-Closing Audit may be made from the EFIH Claims Reserve; (c) the EFIH Claims Reserve may be further modified pursuant to a Reserve Order entered after the EFH Effective Date (and without prejudice to any parties  rights and objections to be addressed at the Reserve Hearing prior to entry of the Reserve Order); and (d) neither Reorganized EFIH nor the Plan Sponsor shall have any obligation to fund the EFIH Claims Reserve with Cash on hand after the EFH Effective Date and the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be funded solely using the Merger Sub Cash Amount and Cash on hand at EFIH immediately prior to the EFH Effective Date.  For the avoidance of doubt, (i) neither of the amount of Cash on hand at EFH Corp. or the Makewhole Stock Reserve shall be used to fund the EFIH Claims Reserve and (ii) the establishment of the EFIH Claims Reserve is not an admission of liability by any party, including the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, the EFH Plan Administrator Board, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, and the Initial 

17 

Supporting Creditors, as to the validity or amount of any potential claims and the amounts being reserved for in the EFIH Claims Reserve. 
  164.           EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim by an EFIH Debtor against another EFIH Debtor. 
  165.           EFIH Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) EFIH; and (b) EFIH Finance. 
  166.           EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Banks    means the  Secured Cash Management Banks,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  167.            EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligations    means the  Secured Cash Management Obligations,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  168.           EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Banks    means the  Secured Hedge Banks,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  169.            EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Obligations    means the  Secured Hedge Obligations,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  170.           EFIH Finance    means EFIH Finance Inc., a Delaware corporation. 
  171.           EFIH First Lien 6.875% Notes    means the EFIH First Lien Notes that bear interest (because of an increase in the rate of 50 basis points due to the EFIH Debtors  failure to register them) under the applicable agreements at a rate of 7.375% per annum (CUSIPs 29269Q AE7   U29197). 
  172.           EFIH First Lien 10.0% Notes    means the EFIH First Lien Notes that bear interest under the applicable agreements at a rate of 10.000% per annum (CUSIP 29269QAA5). 
  173.           EFIH First Lien 10.5% Notes    means the EFIH First Lien Notes that bear interest (because of an increase in the rate of 50 basis points due to the EFIH Debtors  failure to register them) under the applicable agreements at a rate of 10.500% per annum (CUSIPs 29269QAK3   U29197AG2). 
  174.           EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated August 14, 2012, by and among the EFIH Debtors, as issuers, and the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee. 
  175.           EFIH First Lien 2017 Notes    means the 6.875% senior secured notes due August 15, 2017, issued by the EFIH Debtors pursuant to the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture. 
  176.           EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated August 17, 2010, by and among the EFIH Debtors, as issuers, and the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee. 
  177.           EFIH First Lien 2020 Notes    means the 10.0% senior secured notes due December 1, 2020, issued by the EFIH Debtors pursuant to the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture. 
  178.           EFIH First Lien DIP Agent    means Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, or its duly appointed successor, in its capacity as administrative agent and collateral agent for the EFIH First Lien DIP Facility. 
  179.           EFIH First Lien DIP Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFIH First Lien DIP Credit Agreement or the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order, including Claims for all principal amounts outstanding, interest, fees, expenses, costs, and other charges.  

18 

180.           EFIH First Lien DIP Collateral    means the  EFIH DIP Collateral,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  181.            EFIH First Lien DIP Contingent Obligations    means the  Contingent Obligations,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien DIP Credit Agreement, including any and all expense reimbursement obligations of the Debtors that are contingent as of the EFH Effective Date. 
  182.            EFIH First Lien DIP Credit Agreement    means that certain Senior Secured Superpriority Debtor in-Possession Credit Agreement, dated as of June 19, 2014, as amended, supplemented, or modified from time to time, by and among EFIH, EFIH Finance, the banks, financial institutions, and other lenders from time to time party thereto, the EFIH First Lien DIP Agent, and the other agents and entities party thereto, collectively with the  EFIH First Lien DIP Documents,  as defined in the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  183.           EFIH First Lien DIP Facility    means the EFIH Debtors  $5.4 billion debtor-in-possession financing facility, as approved on a final basis pursuant to the EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order. 
  184.           EFIH First Lien DIP Repayment Amount    means an amount in Cash sufficient to repay all outstanding Allowed EFIH First Lien DIP Claims in accordance with Article II.B.2 of the Plan. 
  185.           EFIH First Lien Final DIP Order    means the   Final Order (A) Approving Postpetition Financing For Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC and EFIH Finance Inc., (B) Granting Liens and Providing Superpriority Administrative Expense Claims, (C) Approving the Use of Cash Collateral by Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC and EFIH Finance Inc., (D) Authorizing the EFIH First Lien Repayment, (E) Authorizing Issuance of Roll-Up Debt to the Extent Authorized by the Settlement Orders, and (F) Modifying the Automatic Stay   [D.I. 859], as amended by the   Amended Final Order (A) Approving Postpetition Financing for Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC and EFIH Finance Inc., (B) Granting Liens and Providing Superpriority Administrative Expense Claims, (C) Approving the Use of Cash Collateral by Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC and EFIH Finance Inc., (D) Authorizing the EFIH First Lien Repayment, (E) Authorizing Issuance of Roll-Up Debt to the Extent Authorized by the Settlement Orders, and (F) Modifying the Automatic Stay   [D.I. 3856]. 
  186.           EFIH First Lien Intercreditor Action    means the pending appeal by the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee against the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee for turnover and other relief (  Delaware Trust Company, as Indenture Trustee v. Computershare Trust Company, N.A.  , et al., No. 16-cv-461 (D. Del.) 
  187.           EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims    means the Makewhole Claims in respect of the EFIH First Lien Notes.  
  188.           EFIH First Lien Note Claim    means any Secured Claim derived from or based upon the EFIH First Lien Notes (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Claim by a Holder of an EFIH First Lien Note Claim or the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee based upon or under the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement). 
  189.           EFIH First Lien Note Indentures    means, collectively:  (a) the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture; and (b) the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture. 
  190.           EFIH First Lien Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the EFIH First Lien 2017 Notes; and (b) the EFIH First Lien 2020 Notes (and the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture and the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture). 
  191.           EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee    means Delaware Trust Company, as successor indenture trustee to BNY. 
  192.           EFIH First Lien Principal Settlement    means that certain settlement approved by the EFIH First Lien Principal Settlement Order. 

19 

193.           EFIH First Lien Principal Settlement Order    means the   Order Approving EFIH First Lien Settlement   [D.I. 858]. 
  194.           EFIH Intercreditor Litigation    means the litigation commenced by the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee against the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee for turnover and other relief,   Delaware Trust Company, as Indenture Trustee   v.   Computershare Trust Company, N.A., et al  ., Adv. Pro. Np. 14-50410-CSS (Bankr. D. Del.) and any pending appeals related thereto. 
  195.           EFIH Professional Fee Escrow Account    means an escrow account established and funded pursuant to Article II.A.2(b) of the Plan for Professional Fee Claims allocated to the EFIH Debtors or the Reorganized EFIH Debtors pursuant to pursuant to Article II.A.2(d) of the Plan. 
  196.           EFIH Professional Fee Reserve Amount    means the total amount of Professional Fee Claims estimated to be allocated to the EFIH Debtors or the Reorganized EFIH Debtors in accordance with Article II.A.2(c) of the Plan. 
  197.           EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims    means the Makewhole Claims in respect of the EFIH Second Lien Notes. 
  198.           EFIH Second Lien Note Claim    means any Secured Claim derived from or based upon the EFIH Second Lien Notes (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Claim by a Holder of an EFIH Second Lien Note Claim or the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee based upon or under the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement). 
  199.           EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated April 25, 2011, by and among the EFIH Debtors, as issuers, and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee. 
  200.           EFIH Second Lien Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the 11.0% senior secured second lien notes due October 1, 2021 (the  EFIH Second Lien 11.0% Notes  and (b) the 11.75% senior secured second lien notes due March 1, 2022 (the  EFIH Second Lien 11.75% Notes ), issued by the EFIH Debtors pursuant to the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture (and the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture). 
  201.           EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee    means Computershare Trust, as successor indenture trustee to BNY. 
  202.           EFIH Second Lien Note Repayment Amount    means an amount in Cash sufficient to repay all outstanding EFIH Second Lien Note Claims in accordance with, and to the extent provided in, Article III.B.20 of the Plan, excluding any amounts paid on account of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims as set forth in Article III.B.20(b)(iii) and (iv). 
  203.           EFIH Second Lien Partial Repayment    means the partial repayment of EFIH Second Lien Notes, in the amount of up to $750 million, effectuated pursuant to the   Order (A) Authorizing Partial Repayment of EFIH Second Lien Notes; (B) Approving EFIH DIP Consent; and (C) Authorizing Consent Fee   [D.I. 3855]. 
  204.           EFIH Senior Toggle Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated December 5, 2012, by and among the EFIH Debtors, as issuers, and the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee. 
  205.           EFIH Senior Toggle Notes    means the 11.25%/12.25% senior unsecured notes due December 1, 2018, issued by the EFIH Debtors pursuant to the EFIH Senior Toggle Note Indenture. 
  206.           EFIH Settlement Agreement    means that certain settlement agreement to be approved pursuant to the Settlement Approval Order by and among the EFH/EFIH Debtors, the Supporting EFIH Unsecured Creditors, the Supporting EFIH First Lien Creditors, and the Supporting EFIH Second Lien Creditors (each as defined therein). 

20 

207.           EFIH Supporting Unsecured Creditors    means the holders or investment advisors or managers of discretionary accounts of beneficial holders that hold, or direct the vote of, EFIH Unsecured Note Claims that are party to the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement. 
  208.           EFIH Unexchanged Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated November 16, 2009, by and among the EFIH Debtors, as issuers, and the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee. 
  209.           EFIH Unexchanged Notes    means the 9.75% unsecured notes due October 15, 2019, issued by the EFIH Debtors pursuant to the EFIH Unexchanged Note Indenture. 
  210.           EFIH Unsecured Creditor Cash Pool    means (a) the balance, if any, of any Cash held by EFIH after giving effect to all other transactions and distributions that are contemplated by the Plan or the Merger Agreement to occur on, before, or after the EFH Effective Date, including the funding of the EFIH Claims Reserve in accordance with the Plan and EFH Confirmation Order; and (b) any other amounts payable to Holders of Claims entitled to distributions from the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Cash Pool as expressly provided in the Plan. 
  211.           EFIH Unsecured Creditor Equity Pool    means (a) any Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock, which shall, on the EFH Effective Date, convert to the right to receive the NextEra Class B Common Stock, and any NextEra Class B Common Stock, as applicable, payable to Holders of Allowed Class B5 and Allowed Class B6 Claims in accordance with  Article IV.B.9(b) of the Plan, and (b) any other amounts payable to Holders of Claims entitled to distributions from the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Equity Pool as expressly provided in the Plan and the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures. 
  212.           EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement    means that certain plan support agreement, as amended or modified on January 19, 2017, entered into by the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee, and the EFIH Supporting Unsecured Creditors, on January 2, 2017. 
  213.           EFIH Unsecured Creditor Recovery Pool    means, collectively, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Equity Pool and the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Cash Pool. 
  214.           EFIH Unsecured Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the EFIH Unsecured Notes. 
  215.           EFIH Unsecured Note Indentures    means, collectively:  (a) the EFIH Senior Toggle Note Indenture; and (b) the EFIH Unexchanged Note Indenture. 
  216.           EFIH Unsecured Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the EFIH Senior Toggle Notes; and (b) the EFIH Unexchanged Notes. 
  217.           EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee    means UMB Bank, N.A., as successor trustee to BNY. 
  218.           EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee Fees and Expenses    means the fees and expenses of the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee incurred as of the EFH Effective Date, including the EFIH Base Payment Amount. 
  219.           Employment Agreements    means all existing employment agreements by and between any employee of the Debtors and a Debtor, each of which shall be assumed and assigned to Reorganized TCEH Debtors on the TCEH Effective Date. 
  220.           Entity    has the meaning set forth in section 101(15) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  221.           Environmental Action    means the pending case of   United States v. Luminant Generation Company LLC  ,     et al., 3:13-cv-3236-K (N.D. Tex.). 

21 

222.           Environmental Law    means all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, ordinances and similar provisions having the force or effect of law, all judicial and administrative orders, agreements and determinations and all common law concerning pollution or protection of the environment, or environmental impacts on human health and safety, including, without limitation, the Atomic Energy Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Clean Water Act; the Clean Air Act; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act; the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act; the Nuclear Waste Policy Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Safe Drinking Water Act; the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and any state or local equivalents.     
  223.            EPA Settlement Amount    means $1,000,000.00, as set forth in the order approving that certain Stipulation and Settlement Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2015, by and among EFH Corp., TCEH, EFCH, the United States on behalf of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, certain Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the Original Plan Sponsors, and the TCEH Committee [D.I. 7204]. 
  224.           Equity Investment    means the equity investments to be made pursuant to the Merger, including the Plan Sponsor Investment. 
  225.           ERISA    means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C.    1001-1461 as amended, (2006 V. Supp. 2011), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. 
  226.           Estate    means, as to each Debtor, the estate created for the Debtor in its Chapter 11 Case pursuant to section 541 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  227.           Estimated Company Cash Amount    means the  Estimated Company Cash Amount  as defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  228.           Exchange Agent    means  Exchange Agent,  as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  229.           Exculpated Parties    means, collectively, and in each case in its capacity as such:  (a) the Debtors; (b) the Committees and each of their respective members; and (c) with respect to each of the foregoing, such Entity and its current and former Affiliates, and such Entity s and its current and former Affiliates  current and former equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), subsidiaries, officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such. 
  230.           Executive Severance Policy    means the Energy Future Holdings Corp. Executive Change in Control Policy, effective as of May 20, 2005, as amended on December 23, 2008 and December 20, 2010, and in effect as of the date of Filing of the Plan. 
  231.           Executory Contract    means a contract to which one or more of the Debtors is a party and that is subject to assumption or rejection under section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  232.           FCC    means the Federal Communications Commission. 
  233.           Federal Judgment Rate    means the rate of interest calculated pursuant to the provisions of 28 U.S.C.   1961, which shall be a rate equal to the weekly average 1-year constant maturity Treasury yield, as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as of the Petition Date, which rate was 0.11%, compounded annually. 
  234.           Fee Committee    means that certain fee review committee appointed pursuant to the   Stipulation and Consent Order Appointing a Fee Committee   [D.I. 1891]. 
  235.           FERC    means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 

22 

236.           File  ,     Filed  ,  or    Filing    means file, filed, or filing in the Chapter 11 Cases with the Bankruptcy Court or its authorized designee in the Chapter 11 Cases, including with respect to a Proof of Claim or Proof of Interest, the Claims and Noticing Agent.  
  237.           Final Order    means (a) an order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court, as entered on the docket in any Chapter 11 Case (or any related adversary proceeding or contested matter) or the docket of any other court of competent jurisdiction, or (b) an order or judgment of any other court having jurisdiction over any appeal from (or petition seeking certiorari or other review of) any order or judgment entered by the Bankruptcy Court (or any other court of competent jurisdiction, including in an appeal taken) in any Chapter 11 Case (or any related adversary proceeding or contested matter), in each case that has not been reversed, stayed, modified, or amended, and as to which the time to appeal, or seek certiorari or move for a new trial, reargument, or rehearing has expired according to applicable law and no appeal or petition for certiorari or other proceedings for a new trial, reargument, or rehearing has been timely taken, or as to which any appeal that has been taken or any petition for certiorari that has been or may be timely Filed has been withdrawn or resolved by the highest court to which the order or judgment was appealed or from which certiorari was sought or the new trial, reargument, or rehearing shall have been denied, resulted in no modification of such order, or has otherwise been dismissed with prejudice;   provided  ,   however  , that the possibility a motion under Rule 60 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or any analogous rule under the Bankruptcy Rules or the Local Bankruptcy Rules of the Bankruptcy Court, may be filed relating to such order shall not prevent such order from being a Final Order. 
  238.           Fundamental Opinions    shall include: 
           (a) 
    the following opinions of nationally recognized tax counsel or a Big Four accounting firm (who shall be permitted to rely upon reasonable representations, including a representation that the Debtors have no plan or intention at the time of the Distribution   2    that is inconsistent with the Spin-Off Intended Tax Treatment), in substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors and the Plan Sponsor, at a  should  level: 
              (i) 
    Taking into account the Merger, the Contribution, Reorganized TCEH Conversion, and Distribution should meet the requirements of Sections 368(a)(1)(G), 355, and 356 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
              (ii) 
    EFH should not recognize gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the Contribution or the Reorganized TCEH Conversion other than gain recognized pursuant to the transfer of assets to the Preferred Stock Entity and the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale. 
              (iii) 
    EFH should recognize no gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes upon the Distribution. 
              (b) 
    the following opinions of nationally recognized tax counsel or a Big Four accounting firm (who shall be permitted to rely upon reasonable representations, including a representation that the Debtors have no plan or intention at the time of the Distribution that is inconsistent with the Spin-Off Intended Tax Treatment), in substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors and the Plan Sponsor, at a  will  level: 
              (i) 
    Section 355(g) will not apply to the Reorganized TCEH Spin-Off. 
              (ii) 
    Each of the EFH SAG and the Spinco SAG will be engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business (within the meaning of section 355(b)) immediately after the Reorganized TCEH Spin-Off. 

________________________ 
                  2   
    Capitalized terms in this definition that are not defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms in the request submitted to the IRS for the Private Letter Ruling and all other IRS Submissions;   provided  ,   however,   that nothing herein shall require the public disclosure of the IRS Submissions. 

23 

239.           Future Interest Claims    means certain Claims asserted by Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes for interest, such that to the extent that funds distributed to the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee prior to the full resolution of all issues arising from the EFIH Intercreditor Litigation are required to be held by any party for any reason, it is the view of the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee interest shall continue to accrue on any funds which cannot be distributed to the Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes due to the pendency of the EFIH Intercreditor Litigation. 
  240.           General Administrative Claim    means any Administrative Claim, other than a Professional Fee Claim. 
  241.           General Unsecured Claim     Against EFCH    means any Unsecured Claim against EFCH that is not otherwise paid in full pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, including the EFCH 2037 Note Claims, but excluding:  (a) Administrative Claims against EFCH; (b) Priority Tax Claims against EFCH; (c) Intercompany Claims against EFCH; (d) Other Priority Claims against EFCH; and (e) DIP Claims. 
  242.           General Unsecured Claim Against EFH Corp.    means any Unsecured Claim against EFH Corp. that is not otherwise paid in full pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, including the EFH Series N Note Claims, but excluding:  (a) Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors; (b) EFH Legacy Note Claims; (c) EFH Unexchanged Note Claims; (d) EFH LBO Note Primary Claims; (e) EFH Swap Claims; (f) EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims; (g) the TCEH Settlement Claim; (h) Tex-La Guaranty Claims; (i) Administrative Claims against EFH Corp.; (j) Priority Tax Claims against EFH Corp.; (k) Intercompany Claims against EFH Corp.; (l) Other Priority Claims against EFH Corp.; and (m) EFIH First Lien DIP Claims. 
  243.           General Unsecured Claim Against the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp.    means any Unsecured Claim against one or more of the EFH Debtors (other than EFH Corp.) that is not otherwise paid in full pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, but excluding:  (a) Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors; (b) EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims; (c) Administrative Claims against the EFH Debtors other than EFH Corp.; (d) Priority Tax Claims against the EFH Debtors other than EFH Corp.; (e) Intercompany Claims against the EFH Debtors other than EFH Corp.; (f) Other Priority Claims against the EFH Debtors other than EFH Corp.; and (g) EFIH First Lien DIP Claims. 
  244.           General Unsecured Claim Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors    means any Unsecured Claim against one or more of the EFH Shared Services Debtors that is not otherwise paid in full pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, excluding:  (a) Administrative Claims against the EFH Shared Services Debtors; (c) Priority Tax Claims against the EFH Shared Services Debtors; (d) Intercompany Claims against the EFH Shared Services Debtors; (e) Other Priority Claims against the EFH Shared Services Debtors; and (f) DIP Claims. 
  245.           General Unsecured Claim Against the EFIH Debtors    means any Unsecured Claim against one or more of the EFIH Debtors that is not otherwise paid in full pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, including the EFIH Unsecured Note Claims and any Unsecured Claims derived from or based upon the EFIH First Lien Notes or EFIH Second Lien Notes, but excluding:  (a) EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims; (b) Administrative Claims against the EFIH Debtors; (c) Priority Tax Claims against the EFIH Debtors; (d) Intercompany Claims against the EFIH Debtors; (e) Other Priority Claims against the EFIH Debtors; and (f) EFIH First Lien DIP Claims. 
  246.           General Unsecured Claim     Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH    means any Unsecured Claim against one or more of the TCEH Debtors other than EFCH that is not otherwise paid in full pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, including the Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors, but excluding:  (a) TCEH Unsecured Debt Claims; (b) Administrative Claims against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; (c) Priority Tax Claims against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; (d) Intercompany Claims against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; (e) Other Priority Claims against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; and (f) DIP Claims. 
  247.           Governmental Unit    has the meaning set forth in section 101(27) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  248.           Holder    means an Entity holding a Claim or an Interest, as applicable. 

24 

249.           HSR Act    means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. 
  250.           Impaired    means, with respect to a Class of Claims or Interests, a Class of Claims or Interests that is impaired within the meaning of section 1124 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  251.           Incremental Amendment Agreement    means that certain Incremental Amendment No. 1, dated as January 4, 2013, by and among the Incremental 2012 Term Lenders (as defined therein), EFCH, TCEH, the Credit Parties (as defined therein) party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as administrative and collateral agent. 
  252.           Indemnification Obligations    means each of the Debtors  indemnification obligations in place as of the Effective Date, whether in the bylaws, certificates of incorporation or formation, limited liability company agreements, other organizational or formation documents, board resolutions, management or indemnification agreements, or employment or other contracts, for their current and former directors, officers, managers, employees, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, and other professionals and agents of the Debtors, as applicable. 
  253.            Indenture Trustees    means, collectively:  (a) the EFH Notes Trustee; (b) the EFCH 2037 Notes Trustee; (c) the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee; (d) the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee; (e) the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee; (f) the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee; (g) the TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee; (h) the TCEH Unsecured Notes Trustee; (i) the PCRB Trustee; (j) the EFH Series N Notes Trustee; and (k) the TCEH Second Lien Notes Collateral Agent. 
  254.           Initial Plan    means the   Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp., et al., Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code   [D.I. 4142], dated April 14, 2015. 
  255.           Initial Supporting Creditor    means  Initial Supporting Creditor,  as defined in the EFIH Unsecured Plan Support Agreement. 
  256.           Insurance Policies    means any insurance policies, insurance settlement agreements, coverage-in-place agreements, or other agreements relating to the provision of insurance entered into by or issued to or for the benefit of any of the Debtors or their predecessors.  
  257.           Intercompany Claim    means a Claim or Cause of Action by EFH Corp. or any direct or indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp. against EFH Corp. or any direct or indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp.   
  258.           Interest    means any equity security (as defined in section 101(16) of the Bankruptcy Code) in any Debtor and any other rights, options, warrants, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock rights, restricted stock units, redemption rights, repurchase rights, convertible, exercisable or exchangeable securities or other agreements, arrangements or commitments of any character relating to, or whose value is related to, any such interest or other ownership interest in any Entity. 
  259.           Interim Compensation Order    means the   Order Establishing Procedures for Interim Compensation and Reimbursement of Expenses for Professionals   [D.I. 2066]. 
  260.           Internal Revenue Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
  261.           Investor Rights Agreement    means that certain Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of November 5, 2008, by and among Oncor and certain of its direct and indirect equityholders, including EFH Corp. and TTI. 
  262.           IPO Conversion Plan    means the plan attached as an exhibit to the Merger Agreement, as may be modified, amended or supplemented in accordance with the Merger Agreement. 
  263.           IRS    means the Internal Revenue Service. 

25 

264.           IRS Submissions    means all submissions to the IRS in connection with the Private Letter Ruling and the request for the Supplemental Ruling.   
  265.           Judicial Code    means title 28 of the United States Code, 28 U.S.C.    1-4001. 
  266.           Legacy General Unsecured Claim Against the EFH Debtors    means any Claim against the EFH Debtors derived from or based upon liabilities based on asbestos or, to the extent set forth in the Merger Agreement or on Schedule 6.6(a) to the Company Disclosure Letter, qualified post-employment benefits relating to discontinued operations of the EFH Debtors. 
  267.           Legacy General Unsecured Claim Against the TCEH Debtors    means any Claim against the TCEH Debtors derived from or based upon liabilities based on asbestos or qualified post-employment benefits relating to the TCEH Debtors. 
  268.           Liability Management Program    means the various transactions, including debt buybacks, new debt issuances, debt exchanges, debt payoffs, intercompany debt forgiveness, dividends, and maturity extensions, by EFH Corp. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, and restructuring of such Entities  debt obligations completed before the Petition Date, as described in the 2009-2013 SEC filings of EFH Corp., EFIH, EFIH Finance, and TCEH.  
  269.           Lien    has the meaning set forth in section 101(37) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  270.           Litigation Letters    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH Committee Litigation Letters; and (b) the TCEH Unsecured Group Litigation Letter. 
  271.           Luminant    means Luminant Holding Company LLC and its direct and indirect Debtor subsidiaries. 
  272.           Luminant Makewhole Settlement    means those transactions in settlement of Luminant s obligations to Oncor under the Tax and Interest Makewhole Agreements, by which EFIH purchased Luminant s obligations from Oncor in August 2012, and Luminant paid EFIH the same respective amount in September 2012. 
  273.           Makewhole Claim    means any Claim, whether secured or unsecured, derived from or based upon makewhole, applicable premium, redemption premium, or other similar payment provisions provided for by the applicable indenture or other agreement calculated as of the EFH Effective Date (or in the case of the EFIH First Lien Notes, the closing date of the EFIH First Lien DIP Facility, and in the case of EFIH Second Lien Notes, the closing date of the EFIH Second Lien Partial Repayment, with respect to the amount repaid at such time) or any other alleged premiums, fees, or Claims relating to the repayment of the principal balance of any notes, including any Claims for damages, or other relief arising from the repayment, prior to the respective stated maturity or call date, of the principal balance of any notes or any denial of any right to rescind any acceleration of such notes. 
  274.           Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee    means the committee, including the Pre-Effective Date Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, that shall oversee the litigation and/or settlement of the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims on behalf of the EFIH Debtors if the Settlement Approval Order is not entered, consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and as set forth in greater detail in the Amended Plan Supplement. 
  275.           Makewhole Stock Reserve    means the account that shall hold the Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock, which shall convert to the right to receive NextEra Class B Common Stock in accordance with the Merger Agreement, or the NextEra Class B Common Stock, as applicable, pending the final resolution of all Makewhole Claims, and related claims, in accordance with the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures. 
  276.           Management Agreement    means that certain management agreement, dated as of October 10, 2007, by and among EFH Corp., TEF, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co. L.P., TPG Capital, L.P., Goldman, Sachs   Co., and Lehman Brothers Inc. 

26 

277.           Merger    means that certain merger on the EFH Effective Date of Reorganized EFH with and into Merger Sub in a transaction intended to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving entity. 
  278.           Merger Agreement    means that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 29, 2016, by and among NextEra, Merger Sub, EFH Corp., and EFIH, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 18, 2016, and as may be amended, supplemented, or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance therewith, including all exhibits and schedules attached thereto, which shall be included in the Plan Supplement.     
  279.           Merger Closing    means  Closing,  as that term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  280.           Merger Effective Time    means  Effective Time,  as that term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  281.           Merger Sub    means EFH Merger Co., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by NextEra, with whom and into which Reorganized EFH will merge. 
  282.            Merger Sub     Cash Amount    means the Cash to be delivered by Merger Sub to the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account at the Merger Closing in accordance with the Merger Agreement, which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall exclude the EFIH Second Lien Note Repayment Amount. 
  283.           Merger Sub Account    means a segregated, restricted account, and invested and disbursed in accordance with that certain escrow agreement, dated as of the EFH Effective Date, between Merger Sub and U.S. Bank National Association, and used solely to satisfy Allowed Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors that are based on asbestos claims and related costs, including court costs, expert witness costs, attorneys  fees, the cost to procure insurance and all other related costs from time to time during the fifty year term of the escrow agreement and, to the extent any balance (including accrued interest, if any) remains at the end of such term, such balance shall only be paid over to a charity specified in accordance with the terms of such escrow agreement. 
  284.           Minority Interest Acquisition    means the acquisition by Merger Sub, NextEra, or an Affiliate of NextEra of (a) the Oncor Minority Interest in one or more privately negotiated transactions with TTI or Oncor Management or (b) the portion of the Oncor Minority Interest held by TTI pursuant to the drag-along rights set forth in Section 3.3 of the Investor Rights Agreement. 
  285.           MLOC Account    means the interest-bearing escrow account, if any, segregated within the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, governed by an escrow agreement reasonably acceptable to the Debtors, the EFH Plan Administrator Board, and the Initial Supporting Creditors containing funds in an amount reasonably determined by the Initial Supporting Creditors or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, in consultation with the Debtors, to be sufficient to satisfy reasonable and documented fees and expenses incurred on and after the EFH Confirmation Date by the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the fees and expenses of its professionals) and established pursuant to the Reserve Order;   provided, however,   the MLOC Account will not include the value of cash at EFH Corp. and may only be funded to the extent there are any funds remaining after the EFIH Claims Reserve and the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account are funded and any payments required pursuant to the Post-Closing Audit are made in accordance with the Plan. 
  286.           New Boards    means, collectively:  (a) the Reorganized TCEH Board; and (b) the New EFH/EFIH Board. 
  287.           New EFH/EFIH Board    means the board of directors or managers, if any, of the Merger Sub and Reorganized EFIH, as applicable, on and after the EFH Effective Date, in each case to be appointed by the Plan Sponsor. 

27 

288.           New Employee Agreements/Arrangements    means the agreements or other arrangements entered into by the 18 members of the Debtors  management team who are considered  insiders  but who are not party to an Employment Agreement as of the date of the Plan Support Agreement to be adopted by Reorganized TCEH on the TCEH Effective Date and which shall include the applicable terms set forth in Section 10(o) of the Plan Support Agreement and shall otherwise be substantially in the form included in the Plan Supplement and reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (in consultation with the TCEH Committee);   provided  ,   however  , that none of the EFH Debtors, Reorganized EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, Reorganized EFIH Debtors, or Plan Sponsor shall have any liability with respect thereto. 
  289.           New Organizational Documents    means such certificates or articles of incorporation of formation, by-laws, limited liability company agreements, or other applicable formation documents of each of the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, the form of which shall be included in the Plan Supplement;   provided   that (a) any New Organizational Document with respect to any Reorganized EFH Debtor or any Reorganized EFIH Debtor shall be in form and substance acceptable to the Plan Sponsor and (b) any New Organizational Document with respect to any Reorganized TCEH Debtor or any Reorganized Shared Services Debtor shall be in form and substance acceptable to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors. 
  290.           New Reorganized TCEH Debt    means the instruments or other indebtedness to be issued by Reorganized TCEH on the TCEH Effective Date prior to the Reorganized TCEH Conversion pursuant to the Exit Facility Agreement (as defined in the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement) evidencing an obligation to Holders of Allowed TCEH DIP Claims. 
  291.           New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents    means the documents necessary to effectuate the New Reorganized TCEH Debt, which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  292.           NextEra    means NextEra Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation. 
  293.           NextEra Common Stock    means the NextEra Class A Common Stock and the NextEra Class B Common Stock.  
  294.           NextEra Common Stock Investment    means the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment and the NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment. 
  295.           NextEra Class A Common Stock    means the shares of NextEra Common Stock issued in connection with the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment. 
  296.           NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment    means the shares of NextEra Common Stock entitled to be received by the holder of the Reorganized EFH Class A Common Stock upon its conversion at the Merger Effective Time in accordance with the Merger Agreement.  
  297.           NextEra Class B Common Stock    means the shares of NextEra Common Stock to be issued in connection with the NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment. 
  298.           NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment    means the shares of NextEra Common Stock entitled to be received by the holder of the Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock upon its conversion at the Merger Effective Time in accordance with the Merger Agreement. 
  299.           Non-EFH Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim, other than the TCEH Settlement Claim, by any direct or indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp. (other than an EFH Debtor) against an EFH Debtor, including any Claims derived from or based upon EFH Legacy Notes held by EFIH. 
  300.           Non-EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim by EFH. Corp. or any direct or indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp. (other than an EFH Shared Services Debtor) against an EFH Shared Services Debtor. 

28 

301.           Non-EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim by EFH Corp. or any direct or indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp. (other than an EFIH Debtor) against an EFIH Debtor. 
  302.           Non-TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claim    means any Claim by EFH Corp. or any direct or indirect subsidiary of EFH Corp. (other than a TCEH Debtor) against a TCEH Debtor, including any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH Credit Agreement, the TCEH First Lien Notes, or TCEH Unsecured Notes held by EFH Corp. and EFIH. 
  303.           NRC    means the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
  304.           Nuclear Decommissioning Obligations    means the Debtors  funding obligations related to a nuclear decommissioning trust that will be used to fund the decommissioning of the Comanche Peak nuclear power plant, as required by the United States Department of Energy. 
  305.           Oak Grove Promissory Note    means that certain Promissory Note, dated December 22, 2010, by and among Oak Grove Power Company LLC, as issuer, and North American Coal Royalty Company, as holder, and John W. Harris, as trustee, with face amount of $7,472,500 due in annual installments through December 22, 2017, which note is secured by all coal, lignite, and other near-surface minerals on and under certain real property in Robertson County, Texas. 
  306.           Oak Grove Promissory Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the Oak Grove Promissory Note. 
  307.           Oncor    means Oncor Holdings and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. 
  308.           Oncor Electric    means Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC. 
  309.           Oncor Holdings    means Oncor Electric Delivery Holdings Company LLC. 
  310.           Oncor Letter Agreement    means that certain letter agreement to be entered into contemporaneously with the Merger Agreement, by and among NextEra, Merger Sub, Oncor Electric, and Oncor Holdings, pursuant to which, among other things, each of Oncor Electric and Oncor Holdings will agree to take and not to take certain actions in furtherance of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  311.           Oncor Management    means Oncor Management Investment LLC. 
  312.           Oncor Minority Interest    means the minority interests in Oncor Electric held by TTI and Oncor Management. 
  313.           Oncor Tax Sharing Agreement    means that certain Amended and Restated Tax Sharing Agreement, dated as of November 5, 2008, by and among EFH Corp., Oncor Holdings, Oncor Electric, TTI, and Oncor Management. 
  314.           OpCo    means TEX Operations Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. 
  315.           Ordinary Course Professional Order    means the   Order Authorizing the Retention and Compensation of Certain Professionals Utilized in the Ordinary Course of Business   [D.I. 765].  
  316.           Original Confirmed Plan    means the   Sixth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp.,   et al.  , Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code   [D.I. 7235]. 
  317.           Original Plan Sponsors    means  Plan Sponsors,  as such term was defined in the Original Confirmed Plan. 

29 

318.           Original Plan Supplement    means the   Plan Supplement for the Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp., et al., Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code   [D.I. 6544], and any amendments and modifications thereto, including D.I. 7191 and D.I. 7866. 
  319.           Other Priority Claims    means any Claim, other than an Administrative Claim, a DIP Claim, or a Priority Tax Claim, entitled to priority in right of payment under section 507(a) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  320.           Other Secured Claim Against the EFH Debtors    means any Secured Claim against any of the EFH Debtors, excluding DIP Claims. 
  321.           Other Secured Claim Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors    means any Secured Claim against any of the EFH Shared Services Debtors, excluding DIP Claims. 
  322.           Other Secured Claim Against the EFIH Debtors    means any Secured Claim against any of the EFIH Debtors, excluding:  (a) EFIH First Lien Note Claims, if any; (b) EFIH Second Lien Note Claims; and (c) DIP Claims. 
  323.           Other Secured Claim Against the TCEH Debtors    means any Secured Claim against any of the TCEH Debtors, including the Oak Grove Promissory Note Claims and Tex-La Obligations, but excluding:  (a) TCEH First Lien Secured Claims; and (b) DIP Claims. 
  324.           OV2    means Ovation Acquisition II, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company. 
  325.             Parent Disclosure Letter    means  Parent Disclosure Letter  as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  326.           PBGC    means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a wholly-owned United States government corporation, and an agency of the United States created by ERISA. 
  327.           PCRB Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the PCRBs, excluding the Repurchased PCRBs, including any Claims and Causes of Action held by the PCRB Trustee, including for fees and expenses, related to the PCRBs. 
  328.           PCRBs    means the pollution control revenue refunding bonds and pollution control revenue bonds outstanding from time to time, including: (a) 7.70% Fixed Series 1999C due March 1, 2032; (b) 7.70% Fixed Series 1999A due April 1, 2033; (c) 6.30% Fixed Series 2003B due July 1, 2032; (d) 6.75% Fixed Series 2003C due October 1, 2038; (e) 5.40% Fixed Series 2003D due October 1, 2029; (f) 5.40% Fixed Series 1994A due May 1, 2029; (g) 5.00% Fixed Series 2006 due March 1, 2041; (h) 8.25% Fixed Series 2001A Due October 1, 2030; (i) 8/25% Fixed Series 2001D-1 due May 1, 2033; (j) 6.45% Fixed Series 2000A due June 1, 2021; (k) 5.80% Fixed Series 2003A due July 1, 2022; (l) 6.15% Fixed Series 2003B due August 1, 2022; (m) 5.20% Fixed Series 2001C due May 1, 2028; (n) 6.25% Fixed Series 2000A due May 1, 2028; (o) Series 1994B due May 1, 2029 (variable rate); (p) Series 1995A due April 1, 2030 (variable rate); (q) Series 1995B due June 1, 2030 (variable rate); (r) Series 2001B due May 1, 2029 (variable rate); (s) Series 2001C due May 1, 2036 (15% ceiling); (t) Floating Taxable Series 2001I due December 1, 2036; (u) Floating Series 2002A due May 1, 2037; (v) Series 2003A due April 1, 2038 (15% ceiling); (w) Series 1999B due September 1, 2034 (15% ceiling); (x) Floating Series 2001D-2 due May 1, 2033; (y) Series 2001A due May 1, 2022 (15% ceiling); (z) Series 2001B due May 1, 2030 (15% ceiling); and (aa) Series 2001A due May 1, 2027 (variable rate), to which, among others, the PCRB Trustee is party. 
  329.           PCRB Trustee    means BNYM, as indenture trustee for the PCRBs. 
  330.           Pension Plans    means the two single-employer defined benefit plans insured by the PBGC and covered by Title IV of ERISA, 29 U.S.C.    1301-1461, including (a) the plan sponsored by EFH Corp., and (b) the plan sponsored by Oncor Electric. 

30 

331.           Periodic Distribution Date    means, unless otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court, the first Business Day that is 120 days after the Effective Date, and, for the first year thereafter, the first Business Day that is 120 days after the immediately preceding Periodic Distribution Date. After one year following the Effective Date, the Periodic Distribution Date will occur on the first Business Day that is 180 days after the immediately preceding Periodic Distribution Date, unless and until otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court. 
  332.           Petition Date    means     April 29, 2014, the date on which the Debtors commenced the Chapter 11 Cases. 
  333.           PIK Settlement    means the transactions contemplated by the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement. 
  334.           Plan    means this   Eighth Amended     Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp.,   et al.  , Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code  , including the Plan Supplement.   
  335.           Plan Sponsor    means NextEra, acting through its wholly-owned subsidiary, NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc., the beneficial owner of approximately $45 million principal amount of EFIH Senior Toggle Notes and a creditor and party in interest in the Chapter 11 Cases, unless and until such time as the Merger Agreement shall have been terminated in accordance with its terms and without consummation of the Merger.  For the avoidance of doubt, upon the termination of the Merger Agreement, any consent rights of the Plan Sponsor set forth in this Plan shall be inoperative. 
  336.           Plan Sponsor     Cash Amount    means collectively, (a) the Merger Sub Cash Amount; (b) the EFIH First Lien DIP Repayment Amount; and (c) the EFIH Second Lien Note Repayment Amount. 
  337.           Plan Sponsor Investment    means, collectively: (a) the Plan Sponsor Cash Amount; and (b) the NextEra Common Stock Investment.   
  338.           Plan Sponsor     Plan Support Agreement    means that certain Alternative E-Side Restructuring Agreement, dated as of July 29, 2016, by and among the Plan Sponsor, the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and certain Holders of Claims Against the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, as amended on September 19, 2016 and as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance therewith. 
  339.           Plan Sponsor PSA Order    means the   Order (A) Authorizing Entry Into the Merger Agreement, (B) Approving the Termination Fee, and (C) Authorizing Entry Into and Performance Under the Plan Support Agreement   [D. I. 9584], entered by the Bankruptcy Court on September 19, 2016. 
  340.           Plan Supplement    means the compilation of documents and forms of documents, schedules, and exhibits to the Plan Filed by the Debtors on November 10, 2016 [D.I. 10101], February 7, 2017 [D.I. 10780], and February 14, 2017 [D.I. 10827], as may be further amended, modified, or supplemented from time to time, subject to the consent of the Plan Sponsor, in advance of the hearing to consider confirmation of the Plan as it relates to the EFH/EFIH Debtors, comprised of, among other documents, the following, if any and as applicable:  (a) New Organizational Documents; (b) the Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List; (c) the Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List (which shall include the Employment Agreements and provide that such Employment Agreements are assigned to Reorganized TCEH on the TCEH Effective Date); (d) a list of retained Causes of Action; (e) the Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan; (f) the New Employee Agreements/Arrangements; (g) the Reorganized TCEH Registration Rights Agreement; (h) the identity of the members of the New Boards and management for the Reorganized Debtors; (i) the New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents; (j) the Merger Agreement; (k) the Tax Matters Agreement; (l) the Transition Services Agreement; (m) the Reorganized TCEH Shareholders  Agreement; (n) the Oncor Letter Agreement; (o) the Separation Agreement; (p) the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement or the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement (as applicable); (q) the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement; (r) the Taxable Separation Memorandum; (s) the TRA Information Form; and (t) the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures.  Any reference to the Plan Supplement in the Plan shall include each of the documents identified above as (a) through (t), as applicable.  Other than with respect to the assumption and assignment of the Employment Agreements as set forth herein, the 

31 

documents that comprise the Plan Supplement shall be:  (i) subject to any consent or consultation rights provided hereunder and thereunder, including as provided in the definitions of the relevant documents; and (ii) in form and substance reasonably acceptable (or, to the extent otherwise provided hereunder or thereunder, including as provided in the applicable definitions of the applicable documents, acceptable) to the Plan Sponsor, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and the DIP Agents.  The Parties entitled to amend the documents contained in the Plan Supplement shall be entitled to amend such documents in accordance with their respective terms and Article X of the Plan through and including the Effective Date.  The Plan Supplement shall include all the amendments thereto, subject to the consent of the Plan Sponsor as set forth in the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement and the Plan, including the Amended Plan Supplement.   
  341.           Plan Support Agreement    means that certain Plan Support Agreement, dated as of August 9, 2015 (as amended on September 11, 2015, October 27, 2015, and November 12, 2015, and as may be amended, supplemented, or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance therewith), by and among the Debtors, the Original Plan Sponsors, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, the TCEH First Lien Agent, the TCEH Supporting Second Lien Creditors, the TCEH Committee, and certain other Entities, including all exhibits and schedules attached thereto. 
  342.           Post-Closing Audit    means the  Post-Closing Audit  as defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  343.           Post-Effective Date Administrative Account    means the interest-bearing escrow account segregated within the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, if any, pursuant to the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, governed by an escrow agreement reasonably acceptable to the Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, the EFH Plan Administrator Board, and the Initial Supporting Creditors containing funds in an amount reasonably acceptable to the Debtors and EFH Plan Administrator Board, in consultation with the Initial Supporting Creditors, sufficient to satisfy reasonable and documented fees and expenses incurred on and after the EFH Effective Date by (i) the Debtors and the EFH Plan Administrator Board, arising from or related to any and all litigation, proceedings, and settlements relating to the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims and (ii) the Plan Sponsor, in an amount not to exceed $200,000, arising from responding to third-party discovery in connection with litigation and proceedings relating to the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims.  The Post-Effective Date Administrative Account shall be funded, if necessary, pursuant to the Reserve Order (and all parties  rights are preserved with respect to the size, duration, and relative priority of the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account with respect to the remaining segregated accounts within the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account);   provided  ,   however  ,     that the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account shall be funded, if applicable, from amounts that would otherwise be funded to the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account pursuant to the terms of the Plan or Merger Agreement (but excluding the EFIH Claims Reserve, the value of Cash on hand at EFH Corp. as of the EFH Effective Date, and the Makewhole Stock Reserve)   provided, further, however  , that nothing herein shall prevent the EFH Plan Administrator Board, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following the entry of the Reserve Order. 
  344.           Pre-Effective Date Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee    means the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee upon the EFH Confirmation Date, if any, and prior to the EFH Effective Date, which shall be comprised of four representatives, all of whom shall be Unconflicted Initial Supporting Creditors. 
  345.           Preferred Stock Entity    means, as part of the Spin-Off, the new Entity pursuant to which certain assets and liabilities will be transferred as part of the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, it being understood that, if the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, the Preferred Stock Entity will undertake the Preferred Stock Entity Conversion on the TCEH Effective Date. 
  346.           Preferred Stock Entity Conversion    means, as part of the Spin-Off, the conversion of the Preferred Stock Entity from a Delaware limited liability company to a Delaware corporation on the TCEH Effective Date, immediately following the Contribution and immediately prior to the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale.  

32 

347.           Priority Tax Claim    means the Claims of Governmental Units of the type specified in section 507(a)(8) of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  348.           Private Letter Ruling    means the private letter ruling issued by the IRS to EFH Corp. on July 28, 2016. 
  349.           Pro Rata    means the proportion that the amount of an Allowed Claim or Allowed Interest in a particular Class bears to the aggregate amount of the Allowed Claims or Allowed Interests in that Class, or the proportion of the Allowed Claims or Allowed Interests in a particular Class and other Classes entitled to share in the same recovery as such Claim or Interest under the Plan;   provided  ,   however,   that if the Settlement Approval Order is entered,  Pro Rata  with respect to the EFIH First Lien Note Claims shall mean Pro Rata within each of the EFIH First Lien 10.0% Notes, the EFIH First Lien 10.5% Notes, and the EFIH First Lien 6.875% Notes in accordance with the EFIH Settlement Agreement. 
  350.           Professional    means an Entity, excluding those Entities entitled to compensation pursuant to the Ordinary Course Professional Order:  (a) retained  pursuant to a Bankruptcy Court order in accordance with sections 327, 363, or 1103 of the Bankruptcy Code and to be compensated for services rendered before or on the Effective Date, pursuant to sections 327, 328, 329, 330, 331, and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code; or (b) awarded compensation and reimbursement by the Bankruptcy Court pursuant to section 503(b)(4) of the Bankruptcy Code;   provided, however  , that each of the professionals employed by the DIP Agents shall not be  Professionals  for the purposes of the Plan. 
  351.           Professional Fee Claims    means all Administrative Claims for the compensation of Professionals and the reimbursement of expenses incurred by such Professionals through and including the Effective Date to the extent such fees and expenses have not been paid pursuant to the Interim Compensation Order or any other order of the Bankruptcy Court.  To the extent the Bankruptcy Court denies or reduces by a Final Order any amount of a Professional s requested fees and expenses, then the amount by which such fees or expenses are reduced or denied shall reduce the applicable Professional Fee Claim.   
  352.       Professional Fee Escrow Account    means the TCEH Professional Fee Escrow Account, the EFIH Professional Fee Escrow Account, and the EFH Professional Fee Escrow Account, as applicable. 
  353.       Professional Fee Escrow Agents    means each escrow agent for the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account appointed pursuant Article II.A.2(b) of the Plan and the escrow agreements entered into pursuant thereto.  
  354.           Proof of Claim    means a proof of Claim Filed against any of the Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases. 
  355.           Proof of Interest    means a proof of Interest Filed against any of the Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases. 
  356.           PUC    means the Public Utility Commission of Texas. 
  357.           PUC Approval    means  PUCT Approval,  as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  358.           RCT    means the Railroad Commission of Texas. 
  359.           Redemption Date    means June 19, 2014, the date on which the EFIH Debtors redeemed the EFIH First Lien Notes. 
  360.           Refinanced TCEH DIP Facility    means the TCEH Debtors  debtor-in-possession financing facility, as approved on a final basis pursuant to the   Final Order (A) Approving Postpetition Financing For Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC and Certain of Its Debtor Affiliates, (B) Granting Liens and 

33 

Providing Superpriority Administrative Expense Claims, and (C) Modifying the Automatic Stay   [D.I. 856], and refinanced pursuant to the TCEH DIP Order. 
  361.           Reinstate  ,     Reinstated  ,  or    Reinstatement    means with respect to Claims and Interests, that the Claim or Interest shall be rendered Unimpaired in accordance with section 1124 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  362.            Rejected Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease    means any EFH/EFIH Rejected Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease or any TCEH Rejected Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease. 
  363.           Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List    means, as applicable, the EFH/EFIH Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List or the TCEH Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List. 
  364.           Released Parties    means collectively, and in each case only in its capacity as such:  (a) the EFH/EFIH Plan Supporters; (b) Merger Sub; (c) Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims; (d) Holders of TCEH Second Lien Note Claims; (e) Holders of TCEH Unsecured Note Claims; (f) Holders of EFH Legacy Note Claims; (g) Holders of EFH Unexchanged Note Claims; (h) Holders of EFH LBO Note Primary Claims; (i) Holders of EFIH Unsecured Note Claims; (j) Holders of EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims; (k) the DIP Lenders; (l) the TCEH First Lien Agent; (m) the Indenture Trustees other than the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee; (n) the Dealer Managers; (o) TEF; (p) Texas Holdings; (q) Oncor; (r) funds and accounts managed or advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co., L.P., TPG Capital, L.P. or Goldman, Sachs   Co. that hold direct or indirect interests in Texas Holdings, TEF, or EFH Corp.; (s) the Committees and each of their respective members; (t) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; (u) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against EFCH; (v) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors; (w) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp.; (x) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp.; (y) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors; (z) the Original Plan Sponsors; (aa) OV2; (bb) with respect to each of the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, and each of the foregoing Entities in clauses (a) through (aa), such Entity and its current and former Affiliates, and such Entities  and their current and former Affiliates  current and former directors, managers, officers, equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), predecessors, successors, and assigns, subsidiaries, and each of their respective current and former equity holders, officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such; and (cc) the DTC;   provided  ,   however  , that any Holder of a Claim or Interest that opts out of the releases contained in the Plan shall not be a  Released Party;    provided  ,   further  ,   however   that the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall be Released Parties if and only if the Settlement Approval Order is entered;   provided  ,   further  ,   however   that the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall be Released Parties as amongst each other to the extent set forth in the EFH Confirmation Order. 
  365.           Releasing Parties    means collectively, and in each case only in its capacity as such:  (a) the EFH/EFIH Plan Supporters; (b) Merger Sub; (c) Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims; (d) Holders of TCEH Second Lien Note Claims; (e) Holders of TCEH Unsecured Note Claims; (f) Holders of EFH Legacy Note Claims; (g) Holders of EFH Unexchanged Note Claims; (h) Holders of EFH LBO Note Primary Claims; (i) Holders of EFIH Unsecured Note Claims; (j) Holders of EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims; (k) the DIP Lenders; (l) the TCEH First Lien Agent; (m) the Indenture Trustees other than the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee; (n) the Dealer Managers; (o) TEF; (p) Texas Holdings; (q) Oncor; (r) funds and accounts managed or advised by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co., L.P., TPG Capital, L.P. or Goldman, Sachs   Co. that hold direct or indirect interests in Texas Holdings, TEF, or EFH Corp.; (s) the Committees and each of their respective members; (t) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; (u) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against EFCH; (v) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors; (w) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp.; (x) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp.; (y) Holders of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors; (z) all Holders of Claims and Interests that are deemed to accept the Plan; (aa) all Holders of Claims and 

34 

Interests who vote to accept the Plan; (bb) all Holders in voting Classes who abstain from voting on the Plan   and   who do not opt out of the releases provided by the Plan; (cc) OV2; (dd) the Original Plan Sponsors; (ee) with respect to each of the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, and each of the foregoing Entities in clauses (a) through (dd), such Entity and its current and former Affiliates, and such Entities  and their current and former Affiliates  current and former directors, managers, officers, equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), predecessors, successors, and assigns, subsidiaries, and each of their respective current and former equity holders, officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such; and (ff) all Holders of Claims and Interests, solely with respect to releases of all Holders of Interests in EFH Corp. and their current and former Affiliates, and such Entities  and their Affiliates  current and former equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), predecessors, successors, and assigns, subsidiaries, and their current and former officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such;   provided  ,   further  ,   however   that the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall be Releasing Parties if and only if the Settlement Approval Order is entered;   provided  ,   further  ,   however   that the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and all Holders of Claims derived from or based on the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall be Releasing Parties as amongst each other to the extent set forth in the EFH Confirmation Order. 
  366.           Reorganized Debtor    means any Debtor as reorganized pursuant to and under the Plan or any successor thereto, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, including Merger Sub, on or after the Effective Date. 
  367.           Reorganized EFH    means EFH Corp. on and after the EFH Effective Date, or any successor thereto, including Merger Sub, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, unless otherwise indicated in the Plan. 
  368.           Reorganized EFH Common Stock    means the Reorganized EFH Class A Common Stock and the Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock. 
  369.           Reorganized EFH Class A Common Stock    means one new validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Class A common stock, no par value, of Reorganized EFH to be issued and distributed under and in accordance with the Plan.  
  370.           Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock    means one new validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Class B common stock, no par value, of Reorganized EFH to be issued and distributed under and in accordance with the Plan. 
  371.           Reorganized EFH Debtors    means the EFH Debtors, other than the EFH Shared Services Debtors, as reorganized pursuant to and under the Plan, or any successor thereto, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, including Merger Sub, on or after the EFH Effective Date. 
  372.           Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors    means the EFH Shared Services Debtors, as reorganized pursuant to and under the Plan, or any successor thereto, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, on or after the TCEH Effective Date. 
  373.           Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures    means the set of procedures and methodologies that was filed as part of the Plan Supplement to address, among other things, the amount of Reorganized EFH Common Stock the Debtors anticipate to be issued for the benefit of Holders of Claims and the timing of such issuance, including with respect to the Makewhole Stock Reserve, which procedures and methodologies may be amended from time to time to account for adjustments necessary to ensure the satisfaction of certain continuity of interest requirements.  
  374.           Reorganized EFIH    means EFIH, or any successor thereto, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, on and after the EFH Effective Date. 

35 

375.            Reorganized EFIH Debtors    means the EFIH Debtors as reorganized pursuant to and under the Plan, or any successor thereto, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, on or after the EFH Effective Date. 
  376.            Reorganized EFIH Membership Interests    means the new membership interests in Reorganized EFIH, if any, to be issued on the EFH Effective Date. 
  377.           Reorganized TCEH    means either (a) if the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, the new Entity pursuant to which certain assets and liabilities will be transferred as part of the Contribution and the stock of which will be distributed as part of the Distribution, it being understood that Reorganized TCEH will undertake the Reorganized TCEH Conversion on the TCEH Effective Date, or (b) the new Entity, the common stock of which will be distributed to Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims pursuant to the Taxable Separation. 
  378.           Reorganized TCEH Board    means the board of directors or managers of Reorganized TCEH on and after the TCEH Effective Date to be appointed by the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors in consultation with TCEH. 
  379.           Reorganized TCEH Common Stock    means the 450,000,000 shares of common stock in Reorganized TCEH to be issued and distributed in accordance with the Plan. 
  380.           Reorganized TCEH Conversion    means, as part of the Spin-Off, the conversion of Reorganized TCEH from a Delaware limited liability company into a Delaware corporation on the TCEH Effective Date, immediately following the Contribution and immediately prior to the Distribution.  
  381.           Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan    means the management incentive plan to be implemented with respect to Reorganized TCEH on the TCEH Effective Date, the terms of which shall be consistent with the Plan Support Agreement, in form and substance acceptable to Reorganized TCEH and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and substantially in the form to be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  382.           Reorganized TCEH Debtors    means the TCEH Debtors as reorganized pursuant to and under the Plan, or any successor thereto, by merger, consolidation, or otherwise, and including the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, on or after the TCEH Effective Date. 
  383.           Reorganized TCEH Registration Rights Agreement    means the registration rights agreement that shall provide registration rights to certain Holders of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, the material terms of which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  384.           Reorganized TCEH Shareholders  Agreement    means the one or more shareholders  agreements, if any, that will govern certain matters related to the governance of Reorganized TCEH, which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  385.           Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock    means, if the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, the new contingent-voting preferred stock of the Preferred Stock Entity issued pursuant to the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale. 
  386.           Replacement EFIH First Lien    means the first-priority Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve granted to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee pursuant to Article III.B.19(b) of the Plan. 
  387.           Replacement EFIH Second Lien    means the Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve granted to the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee pursuant to Article III.B.20(b) of the Plan.  
  388.           Repurchased PCRBs    means the PCRBs repurchased by TCEH and held in a custody account. 
  389.           Reserve Hearing    means the hearing to be held in front of the Bankruptcy Court as expeditiously as possible following denial, if any, of the Settlement Approval Order. 

36 

390.           Reserve Objections    means all objections of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee regarding the amount of funding, duration, and terms of the EFIH Claims Reserve to be adjudicated, if necessary, at the Reserve Hearing prior to entry of the Reserve Order. 
  391.       Reserve Order    means any order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court (or any order or judgment of any other court having jurisdiction over any appeal from any order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court) adjudicating the Reserve Objections.  
  392.           Restructuring Transactions    means those mergers, amalgamations, consolidations, arrangements, continuances, restructurings, transfers, conversions, dispositions, liquidations, dissolutions, or other corporate transactions that the Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors reasonably determine to be necessary or desirable to implement the Plan, including, as applicable, the Taxable Separation or, if the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, the Spin-Off, Equity Investment, Merger, and other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. 
  393.           Rural Utilities Service    means the agency of the United States Department of Agriculture tasked with providing public utilities to rural areas in the United States through public-private partnerships. 
  394.           Schedules    means the schedules of assets and liabilities, schedules of Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases, and statement of financial affairs Filed by the Debtors pursuant to section 521 of the Bankruptcy Code, the official bankruptcy forms, and the Bankruptcy Rules. 
  395.           SEC    means the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  396.           Secured    means when referring to a Claim:  (a) secured by a Lien on property in which the Estate has an interest, which Lien is valid, perfected, and enforceable pursuant to applicable law or by reason of a Bankruptcy Court order, or that is subject to setoff pursuant to section 553 of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent of the value of the creditor s interest in the Estate s interest in such property or to the extent of the amount subject to setoff, as applicable, as determined pursuant to section 506(a) of the Bankruptcy Code; or (b) Allowed pursuant to the Plan or separate order of the Bankruptcy Court as a secured claim. 
  397.           Securities Act    means the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C.    77a-77aa, together with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended. 
  398.           Security    or    Securities    has the meaning set forth in section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act. 
  399.           Separation Agreement    means an agreement to be entered into on or before the TCEH Effective Date to, among other things, effectuate the Spin-Off or the Taxable Separation and address the transfer by the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors of certain assets, liabilities, and equity interests related to the TCEH Debtors  operations, including with respect to the EFH Shared Services Debtors, by and among Reorganized TCEH, OpCo and EFH Corp., in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the parties thereto, and acceptable to the Plan Sponsor and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  400.           Settlement    means the compromise and settlement by and among the parties to the Settlement Agreement, including the Debtors and their respective Estates, of (a) all Non-EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims, Non-EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims, Non-TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims, and the TCEH Settlement Claim, other than ordinary course Debtor Intercompany Claims incurred pursuant to, and in accordance with, Paragraph 10 of the Cash Management Order, (b) claims and Causes of Action against Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims and the TCEH First Lien Agent, (c) claims and Causes of Action against the Holders of EFH Interests and certain related Entities, and (d) claims and Causes of Action against any of the Debtors  directors, managers, officers, and other related Entities, as set forth in the Settlement Agreement. 
  401.           Settlement Agreement    means that certain Settlement Agreement by and among the Debtors and certain Holders of Claims and Interests, as approved in the Settlement Order. 

37 

402.           Settlement Agreement Professional Fees    means those  Professional Fees,  as such term is defined in the Settlement Order, actually paid pursuant to the Settlement Order.  
  403.           Settlement Approval Motion    means the motion to approve the EFIH Settlement Agreement. 
  404.            Settlement Approval Order    means the order of the Bankruptcy Court approving the EFIH Settlement Agreement in a manner consistent with its terms, which order has not been stayed and, to the extent not waived in the order, as to which the applicable stay period has expired.  With respect to the EFIH First Lien Settlement (as defined in the EFIH Settlement Agreement), the Settlement Approval Order shall refer to the order of the Bankruptcy Court approving the EFIH First Lien Settlement. With respect to the EFIH Second Lien Settlement (as defined in the EFIH Settlement Agreement), the Settlement Approval Order shall refer to the order of the Bankruptcy Court approving the EFIH Second Lien Settlement. For the avoidance of doubt, none of the Plan Sponsor, Merger Sub, or the Reorganized Debtors shall have or incur any liability pursuant to the Settlement Approval Order, and any payment obligations of such parties shall be strictly as provided in the Merger Agreement, the Plan, and the EFH Confirmation Order. 
  405.           Settlement Order    means the   Order Granting the Motion of Energy Future Holdings Corp., et al., to Approve a Settlement of Litigation Claims and Authorize the Debtors to Enter into and Perform Under the Settlement Agreement   [D.I. 7243]. 
  406.           Shared Services    means those shared services provided to EFH Corp. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including by or through EFH Corporate Services and/or pursuant to any service-level agreement or shared services agreements. 
  407.            Spin-Off    means, if the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, certain transactions required to achieve and preserve the Spin-Off Intended Tax Treatment, including the Contribution, the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, and the Distribution. 
  408.           Spin-Off Conditions    means (a) entry of the Approval Order by the Bankruptcy Court; (b) that the Debtors shall have performed their commitments, covenants and other obligations with respect to the  Preferred Stock Sale  as set forth on Exhibit G to the Plan Support Agreement, as modified consistent with the Tax Matters Agreement; and (c) the satisfaction or waiver, pursuant to the terms set forth in Article IX.E, of the conditions set forth in Article IX.C.8. 
  409.           Spin-Off Conditions Termination Date    means the earlier of (a) November 1, 2016; and (b) the date upon which one or more of the Spin-Off Conditions becomes incapable of being satisfied, as determined by each of:  (i) the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors; (ii) the TCEH Debtors; and (iii) the Plan Sponsor (each acting in their sole reasonable discretion).  
  410.           Spin-Off     Intended Tax Treatment    means (a) the qualification of the Contribution, the Reorganized TCEH Conversion and the Distribution as a  reorganization  within the meaning of sections 368(a)(1)(G), 355, and 356 of the Internal Revenue Code, and (b) the qualification of the contribution described in clause (a) of the definition of the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale as a taxable sale of assets to the Preferred Stock Entity pursuant to section 1001 of the Internal Revenue Code resulting in the Basis Step-Up. 
  411.           Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale    means, as part of the Spin-Off:  (a) following the Preferred Stock Entity Conversion, but before the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, the contribution by Reorganized TCEH of the equity in the Contributed TCEH Debtors (or, potentially, certain assets or joint interests in certain TCEH Assets as agreed upon by EFH Corp. and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, in accordance with the Plan Support Agreement, as applicable), to the Preferred Stock Entity (such contribution to the Preferred Stock Entity of such equity and, potentially such assets, in an amount that is expected to result in the Basis Step-Up) in exchange for the Preferred Stock Entity s (i) common stock and (ii) the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock; (b) immediately thereafter, and pursuant to a prearranged and binding agreement, the sale by Reorganized TCEH of all of the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock to one or more third party investors in exchange for Cash;   provided  ,   however  , that Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims shall not be permitted to purchase the Reorganized TCEH Sub 

38 

Preferred Stock; and (c) the distribution of such Cash by Reorganized TCEH to TCEH to fund recoveries under the Plan. 
  412.           Spin-Off     Tax Receivable Agreement    means the tax receivable agreement or similar arrangement, if any, under which Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries) shall agree to make payments in respect of Reorganized TCEH s (or its subsidiaries ) specified tax items, to be entered into, at the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors  election, on the TCEH Effective Date immediately following the Spin-Off, by Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries), the material terms and conditions of which shall be (a) as proposed by the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (subject to any modifications as consented to by the TCEH First Lien Creditors and the TCEH Debtors, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned) and (b) included in the Plan Supplement. 
  413.           Spin-Off TRA Rights    means the rights to receive payments under (and otherwise share in the benefits of) the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement (if any), whether such rights are structured as a separate instrument issued by Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries) pursuant to the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement, an equity interest in an entity that is a party to the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement, or otherwise. 
  414.            Standing Motions    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH Committee Standing Motion; (b) the TCEH Unsecured Group Standing Motion; and (c) the EFH/EFIH Committee Standing Motion. 
  415.           Subsequent Reserve Order    shall mean any order of the Bankruptcy Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction (including any appellate court) adjudicating the EFIH Claims Reserve after entry of the Reserve Order. 
  416.           Supplemental Rulings    means  Supplemental Rulings,  as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement. 
  417.           Supporting EFIH First Lien Creditors    means the holders or investment advisors or managers of discretionary funds or accounts of beneficial holders that hold, or direct the vote of, Claims against the EFIH Debtors under the EFIH First Lien Notes (solely in such capacity) that are party or that become party to the EFIH Settlement Agreement. 
  418.           Supporting EFIH Second Lien Creditors    means the holders  or investment advisors or managers of discretionary funds or accounts of beneficial holders that hold, or direct the vote of, Claims against the EFIH Debtors under the EFIH Second Lien Notes (solely in such capacity) that are party or that become party to the EFIH Settlement Agreement 
  419.           Taxable Separation    means the transactions required or advisable to cause the TCEH Debtors to directly or indirectly transfer all of its assets to Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries) in a transaction that will be treated as a taxable sale or exchange pursuant to section 1001 of the Internal Revenue Code and not (in whole or in part) as a tax-free transaction (under section 368 of the Internal Revenue Code or otherwise), which may include such steps as (a) the formation of Reorganized TCEH and one or more subsidiaries by a designee of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors; (b) subject to clause (c), the transfer of TCEH s assets to an indirect subsidiary of Reorganized TCEH in exchange for Claims transferred to such indirect subsidiary; (c) the transfer of a portion of the TCEH Debtors  assets to an indirect subsidiary of Reorganized TCEH in exchange for preferred stock of Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries), subject to a pre-existing binding commitment to sell such preferred stock to third-party investors for Cash; and/or (d) any other reasonable methodology proposed by the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors.   The Taxable Separation shall be in form and substance as proposed by the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (subject to any modifications as consented to by the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors and the Debtors, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned) and shall be described in more detail in the Taxable Separation Memorandum. 

39 

420.           Taxable Separation Memorandum    means the restructuring steps memorandum describing the Taxable Separation, which shall be acceptable in form and substance to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors and included in the Plan Supplement.  
  421.             Taxable Separation     Tax Receivable Agreement    means the tax receivable agreement or similar arrangement, if any, under which Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries) shall agree to make payments in respect of Reorganized TCEH s (or its subsidiaries ) specified tax items, to be entered into, at the request of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, on the TCEH Effective Date, the material terms and conditions of which shall be (i) as proposed by the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (subject to any modifications as consented to by the TCEH First Lien Creditors and the TCEH Debtors, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), and (ii) included in the Plan Supplement. 
  422.             Taxable Separation     TRA Rights    means the rights to receive payments under (and otherwise share in the benefits of) the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement (if any), whether such rights are structured as a separate instrument issued by Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries), an equity interest in an entity that is a party to the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement, or otherwise. 
  423.           Tax and Interest Makewhole Agreements    means, collectively:  (a) that certain Tax Make-Whole Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2002, by and among Oncor Electric and TXU Generation Company LP; (b) that certain Interest Make-Whole Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2002, by and among Oncor Electric and TXU Generation Company LP; and (c) that certain Interest Make Whole Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2004, by and among TXU Electric Delivery Company and TXU Generation Company LP. 
  424.           Taxing Units    means Somervell County, Somervell County Water Improvement District, Glen Rose ISD, Somervell Hospital District, Nolan County, Wes Texas Groundwater, Nolan County Hospital District, Sweetwater ISD, City of Sweetwater, and Blackwell ISD. 
  425.           Tax Matters Agreement    means the tax matters agreement to be entered into on or prior to the TCEH Effective Date by and among EFH Corp., Reorganized TCEH, EFIH, EFIH Finance, and Merger Sub, effective upon the Distribution, which shall govern the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain tax matters, which agreement shall be in form and substance acceptable to the Debtors, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and the Plan Sponsor;   provided  , that the form of Tax Matters Agreement filed on August 16, 2016 [D.I. 9305] (along with any amendments thereto agreed upon by the Debtors, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and the Plan Sponsor) shall be deemed to be in form and substance acceptable to the Debtors, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, and the Plan Sponsor. 
  426.           Tax Sharing Agreements    means, collectively:  (a) the Competitive Tax Sharing Agreement; (b) any formal or informal, written or unwritten tax sharing agreement among substantially the same parties that are parties to the Competitive Tax Sharing Agreement; and (c) the Oncor Tax Sharing Agreement. 
  427.           TCEH    means Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.  
  428.           TCEH 2012 Incremental Term Loans    means the TCEH First Lien Claims deemed to have been incurred pursuant to Section 1 of the Incremental Amendment Agreement. 
  429.           TCEH 2015 Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, for the TCEH 2015 Notes, dated as of October 31, 2007, by and among TCEH and TCEH Finance, Inc., as the issuers; EFCH and certain TCEH subsidiaries as guarantors; and the TCEH Unsecured Notes Trustee. 
  430.           TCEH 2015 Notes    means the 10.25% fixed senior notes due November 1, 2015, issued by TCEH and TCEH Finance pursuant to the TCEH 2015 Note Indenture. 

40 

431.       TCEH Assumed Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases    means those Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases to be assumed by the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, including as set forth on the TCEH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List. 
  432.           TCEH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List    means the list of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases to be assumed (with proposed cure amounts), as determined by the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors in consultation with the Plan Sponsor and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, as applicable, as reflected in the Original Plan Supplement, and as may be further amended or modified by inclusion in the Plan Supplement. 
  433.           TCEH Assets    means, collectively:  (a) all of TCEH s interests in its subsidiaries (excluding the stock of TCEH Finance) and (b) (i) all of the EFH Debtors  equity interests in the EFH Shared Services Debtors, EFH Properties Company, and Basic Resources, Inc. and (ii) the Acquired TCEH Assets identified in the Separation Agreement. 
  434.           TCEH Cash Payment    means $550,000,000.00 less (a) the Settlement Agreement Professional Fees; (b) (i) the EFH Committee Settlement Payment Amount, if known as of the TCEH Effective Date or (ii) if the EFH Committee Settlement Payment Amount is not known as of the TCEH Effective Date, $9,450,000 placed in the EFH Committee Settlement Escrow; and (c) the EPA Settlement Amount. 
  435.           TCEH Committee    means the statutory committee of unsecured creditors of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Corporate Services appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases pursuant to section 1102 of the Bankruptcy Code by the U.S. Trustee on May 13, 2014, the membership of which may be reconstituted from time to time. 
  436.           TCEH Committee Litigation Letters    means those certain letters, dated as of March 31, 2015 and April 30, 2015, from the TCEH Committee to the Debtors identifying alleged Claims and Causes of Action that the TCEH Committee may seek standing to pursue.  
  437.           TCEH Committee Standing Motion    means the   Motion of Official Committee of TCEH Unsecured Creditors for Entry of an Order Granting Exclusive Standing and Authority to Commence, Prosecute, and Settle Certain Claims for Declaratory Judgment, Avoidance and Recovery of Liens, Security Interests, Obligations, Fees, and Interest Payments, and Disallowance of Claims   [D.I. 3593]. 
  438.           TCEH Confirmation Date    means the date upon which the Bankruptcy Court enters the TCEH Confirmation Order on the docket of the Chapter 11 Cases, within the meaning of Bankruptcy Rules 5003 and 9021. 
  439.           TCEH Confirmation Order    means the order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Plan with respect to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors pursuant to section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code, which shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH DIP Agent and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors. 
  440.           TCEH Credit Agreement    means the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 10, 2007, as amended, by and among TCEH, as borrower, EFCH and certain TCEH subsidiaries, as guarantors, the lending institutions party from time to time thereto, the TCEH First Lien Agent, and the other parties thereto. 
  441.           TCEH Credit Agreement Claim    means any Claims derived from or based upon the TCEH Credit Agreement, including the term loan, revolver, letter of credit, and commodity collateral posting facilities, and guaranty Claims with respect to EFCH.      
  442.           TCEH Credit Amendment    means that certain Amendment No. 2 to the TCEH Credit Agreement, dated as of April 7, 2011, among TCEH, as borrower, EFCH, the undersigned lenders party to the TCEH Credit Agreement, Citibank, N.A., as administrative and collateral agent, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as amendment arrangers. 

41 

443.           TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claim    means, collectively:  (a) any Claim by a TCEH Debtor against another TCEH Debtor; and (b) any Claim derived from or based upon the Repurchased PCRBs. 
  444.           TCEH Debtors    means, collectively:  (a) EFCH; (b) TCEH; and (c) TCEH s directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries listed on   Exhibit A   to the Plan. 
  445.           TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH Unsecured Note Claims; (b) the TCEH Second Lien Note Claims; (c) the Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH; and (d) the PCRB Claims. 
  446.           TCEH DIP Agent    means Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, or its duly appointed successor, in its capacity as administrative agent and collateral agent for the TCEH DIP Facility. 
  447.       TCEH DIP Claim    means any Claim held by the TCEH DIP Agent or TCEH DIP Lenders arising under or related to the TCEH DIP Facility, including all principal, interest, default interest, commitment fees, exit fees, expenses, costs, and other charges provided for thereunder. 
  448.           TCEH DIP Collateral    means the  DIP Collateral,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Order. 
  449.       TCEH DIP Contingent Obligations    means the  Contingent Obligations,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement, including any and all expense reimbursement obligations of the Debtors that are contingent as of the TCEH Effective Date. 
  450.       TCEH DIP Credit Agreement    means the Senior Secured Superpriority Debtor-in-Possession Credit Agreement, dated as of August 4, 2016, as amended, supplemented, or modified from time to time, among EFCH, TCEH, the banks, financial institutions, and other lenders from time to time party thereto, the TCEH DIP Agent, and the other agents and entities party thereto, collectively with the  DIP Documents,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Order. 
  451.           TCEH DIP Facility    means the TCEH Debtors  $4.25 billion senior secured superpriority debtor-in-possession financing facility, as evidenced by the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement and approved pursuant to the TCEH DIP Order. 
  452.           TCEH DIP L/C    means any letter of credit issued under the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement.  
  453.           TCEH DIP L/C Issuer    means the issuer of a TCEH DIP L/C.  
  454.       TCEH DIP Lenders    means the TCEH DIP Agent, the TCEH DIP L/C Issuers, and the banks, financial institutions, and other lenders party to the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement from time to time. 
  455.       TCEH DIP Order    means the   Amended Order (A) Approving Postpetition Financing For Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC and Certain of Its Debtor Affiliates, (B) Granting Liens and Providing Superpriority Administrative Expense Claims, (C) Authorizing Refinancing of Secured Post-Petition Debt, and (D) Modifying the Automatic Stay   [D.I. 8831]. 
  456.       TCEH DIP Secured Cash Management Banks    means the  Secured Cash Management Banks,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Order. 
  457.       TCEH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligations    means the  Secured Cash Management Obligations,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Order. 
  458.       TCEH DIP Secured Hedge Banks    means the  Secured Hedge Banks,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Order. 

42 

459.       TCEH DIP Secured Hedge Obligations    means the  Secured Hedge Obligations,  as defined in the TCEH DIP Order. 
  460.           TCEH Disclosure Statement    means the   Third Amended Disclosure Statement for the Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Energy Future Holdings Corp., et al., Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code as it Applies to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors  , dated June 16, 2016 [D.I. 8747]. 
  461.            TCEH Disclosure Statement Order    means the   Order (A) Approving the Disclosure Statement of the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors, (B) Establishing the TCEH Voting Record Date, Voting Deadline, and Other Dates, (C) Approving Procedures for Soliciting, Receiving, and Tabulating Votes on the Plan and for Filing Objections to the Plan as to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors, and (D) Approving the Manner and Forms of Notice and Other Related Documents   [D.I. 8761]. 
  462.           TCEH Effective Date    means, with respect to the Plan, unless otherwise agreed to by (a) the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, including the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors acting at the direction of the applicable Disinterested Directors and Managers with respect to Conflict Matters, and (b) the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, the first Business Day after the TCEH Confirmation Date on which:  (i) no stay of the TCEH Confirmation Order is in effect; and (ii) all conditions precedent to the TCEH Effective Date specified in Article IX.C have been satisfied or waived (in accordance with Article IX.E);   provided  ,   however  , that the TCEH Effective Date shall not occur prior to the EFH Effective Date without the prior written consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors. 
  463.           TCEH Finance    means TCEH Finance, Inc., a Delaware corporation. 
  464.           TCEH First Lien Ad Hoc Committee    means the ad hoc committee of certain unaffiliated Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims that is represented by,   inter alia  , Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton   Garrison LLP and Millstein   Co., L.P. 
  465.           TCEH First Lien Administrative Agent    means Wilmington Trust, N.A., solely in its capacity as successor administrative agent to Citibank, N.A. under the TCEH Credit Agreement. 
  466.           TCEH First Lien Agent    means, collectively, the TCEH First Lien Administrative Agent and the TCEH First Lien Collateral Agent and, where applicable, the former administrative agent, the former swingline lender, each former revolving letter of credit issuer, each former and current deposit letter of credit issuer, and the former collateral agent under the TCEH Credit Agreement. 
  467.           TCEH First Lien Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH Credit Agreement Claims; (b) the TCEH First Lien Note Claims; (c) the TCEH First Lien Interest Rate Swap Claims; and (d) the TCEH First Lien Commodity Hedge Claims. 
  468.           TCEH First Lien Collateral Agent    means Wilmington Trust, N.A., solely in its capacity as successor collateral agent to Citibank, N.A. under the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement. 
  469.           TCEH First Lien Commodity Hedge Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH First Lien Commodity Hedges. 
  470.           TCEH First Lien Commodity Hedges    means the commodity hedges entered into by TCEH and secured by a first lien on the same collateral as the TCEH Credit Agreement Claims and the TCEH First Lien Note Claims. 
  471.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Adequate Protection Payment Allocation Dispute    means the issue raised by the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee and/or certain Holders of TCEH First Lien Note Claims that, pursuant to section 510(a) of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise pursuant to applicable law, the Adequate Protection Payments (as defined in the Cash Collateral Order) under the Cash Collateral Order must be allocated among the 

43 

Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims pursuant to the Postpetition Interest Allocation Calculation (as defined in the Cash Collateral Order);   provided  ,   however  , that nothing in this definition shall limit any claims or defenses to such issue. 
  472.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Adequate Protection Payment Allocation Order    means a Final Order resolving with prejudice the TCEH First Lien Creditor Adequate Protection Payment Allocation Dispute. 
  473.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH First Lien Creditor Adequate Protection Payment Allocation Dispute; and (b) the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Dispute.  For the avoidance of doubt, the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes shall not include the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute. 
  474.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute    means the issues raised in the action captioned Marathon Asset Management, LP, v. Wilmington Trust, N.A., (Index No. 651669/2015), that was originally filed by Marathon Asset Management, LP in New York State Supreme Court on May 14, 2015, or any successor action, adversary proceeding, contested matter, or other litigation proceeding in which any claim or Cause of Action is asserted that the Holders of Deposit L/C Loans (as defined in the TCEH Credit Agreement) have a priority security interest, as compared to other Holders of TCEH First Lien Secured Claims, in certain Cash deposited in the Deposit L/C Loan Collateral Account (as defined in the TCEH Credit Agreement);   provided  ,   however  , that nothing in this definition shall limit any claims or defenses to such issues. 
  475.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions    means any and all of the distributions set forth in Article III.B.29(c). 
  476.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Petition Date Allocated Claim Amounts    means the Allowed amounts of such Claims as of the Petition Date as set forth in the Plan. 
  477.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Dispute    means the issue raised by the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee and/or certain Holders of TCEH First Lien Note Claims that, pursuant to section 510(a) of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise pursuant to applicable law, the TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions should be allocated among the Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims on a basis other than Pro Rata based upon the Allowed amounts of such Claims as of the Petition Date;   provided  ,   however  , that nothing in this definition shall limit any claims or defenses to such issue.  
  478.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order    means a Final Order resolving with prejudice the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Dispute, which allocations may be based on the TCEH First Lien Creditor Petition Date Allocated Claim Amounts, the TCEH First Lien Creditor Postpetition Interest Allocated Claim Amounts, or as otherwise provided in such Final Order. 
  479.           TCEH First Lien Creditor Postpetition Interest Allocated Claim Amounts    means the Allowed amounts of such Claims plus postpetition interest calculated at the rate set forth in each of the applicable governing contracts from the Petition Date until the TCEH Effective Date. 
  480.           TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claim    means any TCEH First Lien Claim that is not a TCEH First Lien Secured Claim. 
  481.        TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement    means that certain Amended and Restated Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of October 10, 2007, as amended and restated from time to time, by and among TCEH, EFCH, the TCEH First Lien Agent, and the other parties thereto. 
  482.        TCEH First Lien Interest Rate Swap Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH First Lien Interest Rate Swaps. 

44 

483.            TCEH First Lien Interest Rate Swaps    means the interest rate swaps entered into by TCEH and secured by a first lien on the same collateral as the TCEH Credit Agreement Claims and the TCEH First Lien Note Claims. 
  484.           TCEH First Lien Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH First Lien Notes, excluding any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH First Lien Notes held by EFH Corp. 
  485.           TCEH First Lien Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated April 19, 2011, among TCEH and TCEH Finance, as issuers, EFCH and certain of TCEH s subsidiaries, as guarantors, and the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee. 
  486.           TCEH First Lien Note Intercreditor Action    means the action captioned   Delaware Trust Company   v.   Wilmington Trust, N.A.   (Index No. 650792/2015), that was originally filed by the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee in New York State Supreme Court on March 13, 2015, and any successor action, adversary proceeding, contested matter, or other litigation proceeding in which any claim or Cause of Action is asserted that property or assets distributed to Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims should be allocated among such Holders taking into account the accrual of postpetition interest on such claims despite the fact that pursuant to section 502(b) of the Bankruptcy Code interest ceased to accrue against the Debtors on the TCEH First Lien Claims as of the Petition Date;   provided  ,   however  , that nothing in this definition shall limit any claims or defenses to such arguments.    
  487.           TCEH First Lien Notes    means the 11.50% fixed senior secured notes due October 1, 2020, issued by TCEH and TCEH Finance pursuant to the TCEH First Lien Note Indenture. 
  488.           TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee    means Delaware Trust Company, as successor trustee to BNY. 
  489.           TCEH First Lien Secured Claim    means any TCEH First Lien Claim that is Secured. 
  490.           TCEH Intercompany Notes    means, collectively: (a) that certain intercompany promissory note for principal and interest payments, dated as of October 10, 2007, as amended and restated, by and among EFH Corp., as maker, and TCEH, as payee; (b) that certain intercompany promissory note for SG A, dated as of October 10, 2007, as amended and restated, by and among EFH Corp., as maker, and TCEH, as payee; and (c) that certain intercompany promissory note, dated as of February 22, 2010, as amended and restated, by and among TCEH, as maker, and EFH Corp., as payee. 
  491.           TCEH L/C    means any letter of credit issued under the TCEH Credit Agreement.  
  492.           TCEH L/C Issuer    means the issuer of a TCEH L/C. 
  493.           TCEH Professional Fee Escrow Account    means an escrow account established and funded pursuant to Article II.A.2(b) of the Plan for Professional Fee Claims allocated to the TCEH Debtors or the Reorganized TCEH Debtors pursuant to pursuant to Article II.A.2(d) of the Plan. 
  494.           TCEH Professional Fee Reserve Amount    means the total amount of Professional Fee Claims estimated to be allocated to the TCEH Debtors or the Reorganized TCEH Debtors in accordance with Article II.A.2(c) of the Plan.   
  495.            TCEH Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List    means the list of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases to be rejected pursuant to the Plan, as determined by the TCEH Debtors or the Reorganized TCEH Debtors with the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, as reflected in the Original Plan Supplement and as may be further amended or modified by inclusion in the Plan Supplement. 
  496.           TCEH Second Lien Consortium    means that certain Ad Hoc Consortium of Holders of TCEH Second Lien Notes. 

45 

497.           TCEH Second Lien Intercreditor Agreement    means that certain Second Lien Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of October 6, 2010, as amended and restated from time to time, by and among TCEH, EFCH, the TCEH First Lien Agent, the TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and the other parties thereto. 
  498.           TCEH Second Lien Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH Second Lien Notes. 
  499.           TCEH Second Lien Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated October 6, 2010, by and among TCEH and TCEH Finance, as issuers, EFCH and certain of TCEH s subsidiaries, as guarantors, the TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and the TCEH Second Lien Notes Collateral Agent. 
  500.           TCEH Second Lien Notes    means the 15.0% fixed senior secured second lien notes and the 15.0% fixed senior secured second lien notes, Series B, due April 1, 2021, issued by TCEH and TCEH Finance pursuant to the TCEH Second Lien Note Indenture. 
  501.           TCEH Second Lien Notes Collateral Agent    means BNYMTC, as collateral agent. 
  502.           TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee    means Wilmington Savings Fund Society, as successor trustee to BNY.  
  503.           TCEH Senior Toggle Notes    means the 10.50%/11.25% senior toggle notes due November 1, 2016, issued by TCEH and TCEH Finance pursuant to the TCEH Senior Toggle Note Indenture. 
  504.           TCEH Senior Toggle Note Indenture    means that certain Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, dated December 6, 2007, by and among TCEH and TCEH Finance, Inc., as issuers, EFCH and certain TCEH subsidiaries, as guarantors, and the TCEH Unsecured Notes Trustee. 
  505.           TCEH Settlement Claim    means the Unsecured Claim of TCEH against EFH Corp. Allowed in the amount of $700 million pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. 
  506.           TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions    means the recovery, proceeds, or distributions, if any, that TCEH receives on account of the TCEH Settlement Claim and that it is required to assign or otherwise turn over to Holders of EFH Beneficiary Claims pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 4 of the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement.  The TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $37.8 million.   
  507.           TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors    means those Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims that are members of the TCEH First Lien Ad Hoc Committee and that are parties to the Plan Support Agreement (which shall not include the TCEH First Lien Agent);   provided   that where consent, waiver, or approval of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors is required under the Plan, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors shall mean at least five unaffiliated TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors holding in the aggregate at least 50.1% in aggregate principal amount of TCEH First Lien Claims held by all TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors. 
  508.           TCEH Supporting Second Lien Creditors    means those Holders of TCEH Second Lien Note Claims party to the Plan Support Agreement. 
  509.           TCEH Supporting Unsecured Creditors    means those Holders of TCEH Unsecured Note Claims party to the Plan Support Agreement. 
  510.           TCEH Unsecured Ad Hoc Group    means that certain Ad Hoc Group of TCEH Unsecured Noteholders made up of Holders of TCEH Unsecured Notes. 
  511.           TCEH Unsecured Debt Claims    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims; (b) the TCEH Second Lien Note Claims; (c) the TCEH Unsecured Note Claims; and (d) the PCRB Claims. 

46 

512.           TCEH Unsecured Group Litigation Letter    means that certain letter, dated as of April 30, 2015, from the TCEH Unsecured Ad Hoc Group to the Debtors identifying Claims and Causes of Action that the TCEH Unsecured Ad Hoc Group may seek standing to pursue.  
  513.           TCEH Unsecured Group Standing Motion    means the   Motion of the Ad Hoc Group of TCEH Unsecured Noteholders for Entry of an Order Granting Standing and Authority to Commence, Prosecute, and Settle Certain Claims for Declaratory Judgment, Avoidance and Recovery of Liens, Security Interests, Obligations, Fees, and Interest Payments, and Disallowance of Claims   [D.I. 3603]. 
  514.           TCEH Unsecured Note Claim    means any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH Unsecured Notes, excluding any Claim derived from or based upon the TCEH Unsecured Notes held by EFH Corp. or EFIH. 
  515.           TCEH Unsecured Notes    means, collectively:  (a) the TCEH 2015 Notes; and (b) the TCEH Senior Toggle Notes. 
  516.           TCEH Unsecured Notes Trustee    means Law Debenture Trust Company of New York, as successor trustee to BNY.  
  517.           TEF    means Texas Energy Future Capital Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the general partner of Texas Holdings.  
  518.           Terminated Restructuring Support Agreement    means that certain Restructuring Support and Lock-Up Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2014, by and among EFH Corp, EFIH, EFH Corporate Services, EFIH Finance, the TCEH Debtors, and certain Holders of Claims and Interests, including all exhibits and schedules attached thereto, and terminated as of July 24, 2014 [D.I. 1697]. 
  519.           Tex-La    means the Tex-La Electric Cooperative of Texas, Inc. 
  520.           Tex-La 2019 Obligations    means the payment obligations of EFCH under the terms of the Tex La Assumption Agreement with respect to the 9.58% fixed notes due 2019 issued by Tex-La in the outstanding principal amount of $35 million.  
  521.           Tex-La 2021 Obligations    means the payment obligations of EFCH under the terms of the Tex La Assumption Agreement with respect to the 8.254% fixed notes due 2021 issued by Tex-La in the outstanding principal amount of $37 million.  
  522.           Tex-La Assumption Agreement    means that certain Assumption Agreement, dated February 1, 1990 by and among EFCH, Tex-La, and the U.S. acting through the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service, whereby EFCH agreed to assume certain outstanding indebtedness of Tex-La that is guaranteed by the Rural Utilities Service. 
  523.           Tex-La Guaranty Claim    means any Claim against EFH Corp. derived from or based upon the Tex-La Obligations. 
  524.           Tex-La Obligations    means, collectively:  (a) the Tex-La 2019 Obligations; and (b) the Tex-La 2020 Obligations. 
  525.           Texas Holdings    means Texas Energy Future Holdings Limited Partnership, a Texas limited partnership, which holds substantially all of the outstanding Interests in EFH Corp. 
  526.           Threshold Supporting Creditors    means the Supporting Creditors collectively holding legal or beneficial interests in no less than 66 2/3% of the aggregate principal amount of EFIH Unsecured Note Claim, as of the date that the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement was executed, that executed and delivered the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement.  

47 

527.           TRA Information Form    means the information form that Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims must complete and timely submit to receive the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or the Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any), as applicable, which shall be reasonably acceptable in form and substance to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors and included in the Plan Supplement. 
  528.           Transaction Agreements    means, collectively, (a) the Merger Agreement; (b) the New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents; (c) the Tax Matters Agreement; (d) the Transition Services Agreement; (e) the Separation Agreement; (f) the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement (if any); (g) the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement (if any); (h) the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement; and (i) related agreements and commitment letters. 
  529.           Transition Services Agreement    means the transition services agreement, if any, to be entered into between Reorganized TCEH and EFH Corp on or before the TCEH Effective Date, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to each of the parties thereto, the Plan Sponsor, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, as applicable, addressing the Shared Services and any other transition services reasonably necessary to the continued operation of Reorganized EFIH, Reorganized EFH (or EFH Corp., as applicable), and Oncor, which shall be included in the Plan Supplement. 
  530.           Trustee Indemnification Claims    means the secured indemnification claims that each of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee assert that they have against the Debtors and which the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee assert that must survive the EFH Effective Date for any loss, damage, claims, liabilities or expenses (including professional fees) incurred in connection with performance of their respective duties as trustees (including in connection with the Makewhole Claims, the EFIH Intercreditor Litigation or taking any actions with regard to distributions). 
  531.           TTI    means Texas Transmission Investment LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. 
  532.           Unexpired Lease    means a lease to which one or more of the Debtors is a party that is subject to assumption or rejection under section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  533.           Unimpaired    means, with respect to a Class of Claims or Interests, a Class of Claims or Interests that is unimpaired within the meaning of section 1124 of the Bankruptcy Code. 
  534.           Unconflicted Initial Supporting Creditor    means an Initial Supporting Creditor or a representative thereof that does not hold, or have any interests in, the EFIH First Lien Notes or EFIH Second Lien Notes. 
  535.           U.S.    means the United States of America. 
  536.           Unsecured Claim    means any Claim that is not a Secured Claim. 
  537.           U.S. Trustee    means the Office of the U.S. Trustee for Region 3. 
           B. 
    Rules of Interpretation. 
     For the purposes of the Plan: 
  (1) in the appropriate context, each term, whether stated in the singular or the plural, shall include both the singular and the plural, and pronouns stated in the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender shall include the masculine, feminine, and the neuter gender;  
  (2) unless otherwise specified, any reference herein to a contract, lease, instrument, release, indenture, or other agreement or document being in a particular form or on particular terms and conditions means that the referenced document shall be substantially in that form or substantially on those terms and conditions;   provided   that 

48 

no document shall be deemed to be substantially in such form or substantially on such terms if any variation from such terms has any substantive legal or economic effect on any party; 
  (3) unless otherwise specified, any reference herein to an existing document, schedule, or exhibit, whether or not Filed, having been Filed or to be Filed shall mean that document, schedule, or exhibit, as it may thereafter be amended, modified, or supplemented;   provided   that any such amendment, modification, or supplement is made in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the terms governing any applicable document, schedule, or exhibit, including any consent right in favor of the Plan Sponsor, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, the EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors or the Reorganized EFIH Debtors. 
  (4) any reference to an Entity as a Holder of a Claim or Interest includes that Entity s successors and assigns;  
  (5) unless otherwise specified, all references herein to  Articles  are references to Articles hereof or hereto;  
  (6) unless otherwise specified, all references herein to exhibits are references to exhibits in the Plan Supplement;  
  (7) unless otherwise specified, the words  herein,   hereof,  and  hereto  refer to the Plan in its entirety rather than to a particular portion of the Plan;  
  (8) subject to the provisions of any contract, certificate of incorporation, or similar formation document or agreement, by-law, instrument, release, or other agreement or document entered into in connection with the Plan, the rights and obligations arising pursuant to the Plan shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with the applicable federal law, including the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rules;  
  (9) captions and headings to Articles are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the interpretation of the Plan;  
  (10) unless otherwise specified herein, the rules of construction set forth in section 102 of the Bankruptcy Code shall apply;  
  (11) any term used in capitalized form herein that is not otherwise defined but that is used in the Bankruptcy Code or the Bankruptcy Rules shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the Bankruptcy Code or the Bankruptcy Rules, as the case may be;  
  (12) all references to docket numbers of documents Filed in the Chapter 11 Cases are references to the docket numbers under the Bankruptcy Court s CM/ECF system;  
  (13) all references to statutes, regulations, orders, rules of courts, and the like shall mean as amended from time to time, and as applicable to the Chapter 11 Cases, unless otherwise stated; 
  (14) any immaterial effectuating provisions may be interpreted by the Reorganized Debtors in such a manner that is consistent with the overall purpose and intent of the Plan all without further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court or any other Entity;   provided, however  , that no effectuating provision shall be immaterial or deemed immaterial if it has any substantive legal or economic effect on any party; 
  (15) except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan to the contrary, references in the Plan to the Debtors or to the Reorganized Debtors shall mean the Debtors and the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, to the extent the context requires. 
           C. 
    Computation of Time. 
     Unless otherwise specifically stated herein, the provisions of Bankruptcy Rule 9006(a) shall apply in computing any period of time prescribed or allowed herein.  If the date on which a transaction may occur pursuant to 

49 

the Plan shall occur on a day that is not a Business Day, then such transaction shall instead occur on the next succeeding Business Day.  Except as otherwise provided herein, in the Merger Agreement, in the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, or in the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, as applicable, any action to be taken on the Effective Date may be taken on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Date. 
           D. 
    Governing Law. 
     Unless a rule of law or procedure is supplied by federal law (including the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rules) or unless otherwise specifically stated, the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws, shall govern the rights, obligations, construction, and implementation of the Plan, any agreements, documents, instruments, or contracts executed or entered into in connection with the Plan (except as otherwise set forth in those agreements, in which case the governing law of such agreement shall control);   provided  ,   however  , that corporate governance matters relating to the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, shall be governed by the laws of the state of incorporation or formation of the relevant Debtor or Reorganized Debtor, as applicable. 
           E. 
    Reference to Monetary Figures. 
     All references in the Plan to monetary figures shall refer to currency of the U.S., unless otherwise expressly provided. 

ARTICLE II. 
  ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS, DIP CLAIMS, AND PRIORITY TAX CLAIMS 
  In accordance with section 1123(a)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code, Administrative Claims, DIP Claims, and Priority Tax Claims have not been classified and, thus, are excluded from the Classes of Claims and Interests. 
           A. 
    Administrative Claims. 
     1.    General Administrative Claims. 
  Except as specified in this Article II, unless the Holder of an Allowed General Administrative Claim and the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, agree to less favorable treatment, each Holder of an Allowed General Administrative Claim will receive, in full satisfaction of its General Administrative Claim, Cash equal to the amount of such Allowed General Administrative Claim either:  (a) on the Effective Date; (b) if the General Administrative Claim is not Allowed as of the Effective Date, 60 days after the date on which an order allowing such General Administrative Claim becomes a Final Order, or as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable; or (c) if the Allowed General Administrative Claim is based on a liability incurred by the Debtors in the ordinary course of their business after the Petition Date, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the particular transaction or agreement giving rise to such Allowed General Administrative Claim, without any further action by the Holders of such Allowed General Administrative Claim, and without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court.   
  Requests for payment of General Administrative Claims must be Filed and served on the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, no later than the Administrative Claims Bar Date applicable to the Debtor against whom the General Administrative Claim is asserted pursuant to the procedures specified in the Confirmation Order and the notice of the Effective Date.  Holders of General Administrative Claims that are required to File and serve a request for payment of such General Administrative Claims by the Administrative Claims Bar Date that do not File and serve such a request by the Administrative Claims Bar Date shall be forever barred, estopped, and enjoined from asserting such General Administrative Claims against the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, or their respective property and such General Administrative Claims shall be deemed forever discharged and released as of the Effective Date.  Any requests for payment of General Administrative Claims that are not properly Filed and served by the Administrative Claims Bar Date shall not appear on the Claims Register and shall be disallowed automatically without the need for further action by the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors or further order of the Bankruptcy Court.  To the extent this Article II.A.1 conflicts with Article XII.C of the Plan with respect to fees and 

50 

expenses payable under section 1930(a) of the Judicial Code, including fees and expenses payable to the U.S. Trustee, Article XII.C of the Plan shall govern. 
  2.    Professional Compensation. 
           (a) 
    Final Fee Applications. 
     All final requests for payment of Professional Fee Claims, including the Professional Fee Claims incurred during the period from the Petition Date through the Effective Date, must be Filed and served on the Debtors, or Reorganized Debtors, and, with respect to fees incurred for the benefit of the EFH/EFIH Debtors, the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, no later than the Administrative Claims Bar Date.  All such final requests will be subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court after notice and a hearing in accordance with the procedures established by the Bankruptcy Code and prior orders of the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 Cases, including the Interim Compensation Order, and once approved by the Bankruptcy Court, promptly paid from the Professional Fee Escrow Account up to its full Allowed amount.  
           (b) 
    Professional Fee Escrow Accounts. 
     On the TCEH Effective Date, the Reorganized TCEH Debtors shall establish and fund the TCEH Professional Fee Escrow Account with Cash equal to the TCEH Professional Fee Reserve Amount.  On the EFH Effective Date, the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors shall establish and fund the EFH Professional Fee Escrow Account and the EFIH Professional Fee Escrow Account, respectively, with Cash equal to the EFH Professional Fee Reserve Amount and the EFIH Professional Fee Reserve Amount, respectively.  
  Upon the establishment of the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account, the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and the EFH Debtors shall select a Professional Fee Escrow Agent for the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account to administer payments to and from such Professional Fee Escrow Account in accordance with the Plan and shall enter into escrow agreements providing for administration of such payments in accordance with the Plan.  
  The Professional Fee Escrow Accounts shall be maintained in trust solely for the Professionals.  Such funds shall not be considered property of the Estates of the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors.  The amount of Professional Fee Claims owing to the Professionals shall be paid in Cash to such Professionals from the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account when such Professional Fee Claims are Allowed by a Final Order.   
           (c) 
    Professional Fee Reserve Amount. 
     Professionals shall estimate their unpaid Professional Fee Claims and other unpaid fees and expenses incurred in rendering services to the Debtors before and as of the Effective Date and shall deliver such estimate to the Debtors no later than five days before the Effective Date;   provided  ,   however  , that such estimate shall not be deemed to limit the amount of the fees and expenses that are the subject of the Professional s final request for payment of Filed Professional Fee Claims.  If a Professional does not provide an estimate, the Debtors may estimate the unpaid and unbilled fees and expenses of such Professional.   
  The total amount estimated pursuant to this section shall: (a) as estimated to be allocated to the TCEH Debtors or the Reorganized TCEH Debtors in accordance with Article II.A.2(d) of the Plan, comprise the TCEH Professional Fee Reserve Amount; (b) as estimated to be allocated to the EFH Debtors or the Reorganized EFH Debtors in accordance with Article II.A.2(d) of the Plan, comprise the EFH Professional Fee Reserve Amount; and (c) as estimated to be allocated to the EFIH Debtors or the Reorganized EFH Debtors in accordance with Article II.A.2(d) of the Plan, comprise the EFIH Professional Fee Reserve Amount.   
           (d) 
    Allocation of Professional Fee Claims. 
     Allowed Direct Professional Fee Claims shall be allocated to, and paid from, the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account.  Allowed Collective Professional Fee Claims shall be allocated to, and paid from, the 

51 

applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account in the same proportion that the amount of Allowed Direct Professional Fee Claims incurred by such Professional for such Debtor bears to the total amount of Allowed Direct Professional Fee Claims incurred by such Professional for all of the Debtors.   
           (e) 
    Post-Effective Date Fees and Expenses. 
     When all Allowed amounts owing to Professionals have been paid in full from the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account, any remaining amount in such Professional Fee Escrow Account shall be disbursed as follows without any further action or order of the Bankruptcy Court: (a) from the TCEH Professional Fee Account, to the Reorganized TCEH Debtors; (b) from the EFH Professional Fee Account, to the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, on account of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool; and (c) from the EFIH Professional Fee Account, to the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, on account of the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Recovery Pool.  
  If the amount in any Professional Fee Escrow Account is insufficient to fund payment in full of all Allowed amounts owing to Professionals, the deficiency shall be promptly funded to the applicable Professional Fee Escrow Account as follows without any further action or order of the Bankruptcy Court:  (a) as to the TCEH Debtors or the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, by the Reorganized TCEH Debtors; (b) as to the EFH Debtors, from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, on account of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool; and (c) as to the EFIH Debtors, from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, on account of the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Recovery Pool. 
  Upon the Effective Dates, any requirement that Professionals comply with sections 327 through 331, 363, and 1103 of the Bankruptcy Code in seeking retention or compensation for services rendered after such date shall terminate, and the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors may employ and pay any Professional in the ordinary course of business without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court;   provided, however  , that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Reorganized EFH Debtors and the Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall not be liable or otherwise responsible for the payment of any Professional Fee Claims. 
           B. 
    DIP Claims. 
     1.    TCEH DIP Claims. 
  The TCEH DIP Claims shall be Allowed in the full amount due and owing under the TCEH DIP Credit Agreement and TCEH DIP Order, including all principal, interest, default interest, commitment fees, exit fees, expenses, costs, and other charges provided for thereunder.  On the TCEH Effective Date, except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed TCEH DIP Claim agrees to a less favorable treatment, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of, each Allowed TCEH DIP Claim, each such Holder shall either (a) receive payment in full in Cash on the TCEH Effective Date; (b) be satisfied by converting such Claims into New Reorganized TCEH Debt on a dollar-for-dollar basis in accordance with the terms of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents; or (c) such other treatment as Reorganized TCEH and the applicable Holder of the TCEH DIP Claim shall agree. 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt, none of the EFH Debtors, Reorganized EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, or Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall be obligated in any respect with respect to any TCEH DIP Claims, any TCEH DIP L/C, any TCEH DIP Secured Hedge Obligation, any TCEH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligation, or any TCEH DIP Contingent Obligation. 
    
  2.    EFIH First Lien DIP Claims. 
  The EFIH First Lien DIP Claims shall be Allowed in the full amount due and owing under the EFIH First Lien DIP Credit Agreement, including all principal, accrued and accruing postpetition interest, costs, fees, and expenses.  On the EFH Effective Date, except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed EFIH First Lien DIP Claim agrees to a less favorable treatment, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of, each Allowed EFIH First Lien DIP Claim, each such Holder shall receive payment in full in Cash by or on behalf of EFIH on the EFH Effective Date;   provided that: 

52 

(a) 
    in respect of any EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Obligation that is outstanding on the EFH Effective Date, at the option of Reorganized EFIH, (i) such EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Obligation shall be secured by a first priority Lien on the EFIH First Lien DIP Collateral on terms and conditions as Reorganized EFIH and the applicable EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Bank shall agree, (ii) such EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Obligation shall be repaid in full in Cash on the EFH Effective Date, or (iii) such other treatment shall have been provided with respect to such EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Obligation as Reorganized EFIH and the applicable EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Bank shall agree; 
              (b) 
    in respect of any EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligation that is outstanding on the EFH Effective Date, at the option of Reorganized EFIH, (i) such EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligation shall be secured by a first priority Lien on the EFIH First Lien DIP Collateral on terms and conditions as the Debtors and the applicable EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Bank shall agree, (ii) such EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligation shall be repaid in full in Cash on the EFH Effective Date, or (iii) such other treatment shall have been provided with respect to such EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligation as Reorganized EFIH and the applicable EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Bank shall agree; and 
              (c) 
    the EFIH First Lien DIP Contingent Obligations (including any and all expense reimbursement obligations of the EFIH Debtors that are contingent as of the EFH Effective Date) shall survive the EFH Effective Date on an unsecured basis, shall be paid by the applicable Reorganized Debtors as and when due under the EFIH First Lien DIP Credit Agreement, and shall not be discharged or released pursuant to the Plan and EFH Confirmation Order;   provided   that such surviving EFIH First Lien DIP Contingent Obligations shall not exceed $10 million. 
     For the avoidance of doubt, none of the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, or Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall be obligated in any respect with respect to any EFIH First Lien DIP Claims, any EFIH DIP Secured Hedge Obligation, EFIH DIP Secured Cash Management Obligation, or any EFIH First Lien DIP Contingent Obligation. 
           C. 
    Priority Tax Claims. 
     Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Priority Tax Claim agrees to a less favorable treatment, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Priority Tax Claim, each Holder of such Allowed Priority Tax Claim shall be treated in accordance with the terms set forth in section 1129(a)(9)(C) of the Bankruptcy Code and, for the avoidance of doubt, Holders of Allowed Priority Tax Claims will receive interest on such Allowed Priority Tax Claims after the Effective Date in accordance with sections 511 and 1129(a)(9)(C) of the Bankruptcy Code.  For the avoidance of doubt, all payments in respect of Allowed Priority Tax Claims shall be made by the EFH Plan Administrator Board solely from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account.  

ARTICLE III. 
  CLASSIFICATION AND TREATMENT OF CLAIMS AND INTERESTS 
           A. 
    Classification of Claims and Interests. 
     Claims and Interests, except for Administrative Claims, DIP Claims, and Priority Tax Claims, are classified in the Classes set forth in this Article III.  A Claim or Interest is classified in a particular Class only to the extent that the Claim or Interest qualifies within the description of that Class and is classified in other Classes to the extent that any portion of the Claim or Interest qualifies within the description of such other Classes.  A Claim or Interest also is classified in a particular Class for the purpose of receiving distributions pursuant to the Plan only to the extent that such Claim or Interest is an Allowed Claim or Allowed Interest in that Class and has not been paid, released, or otherwise satisfied before the applicable Effective Date.  The Debtors reserve the right to assert that the treatment provided to Holders of Claims and Interests pursuant to Article III.B of the Plan renders such Holders Unimpaired. 

53 

1.    Class Identification for the EFH Debtors. 
  The Plan constitutes a separate chapter 11 plan of reorganization for each EFH Debtor, each of which shall include the classifications set forth below.  Subject to Article III.D of the Plan, to the extent that a Class contains Claims or Interests only with respect to one or more particular EFH Debtors, such Class applies solely to such EFH Debtor.   
  The following chart represents the classification of Claims and Interests for each EFH Debtor pursuant to the Plan. 
                     Class 
    Claims and Interests 
    Status 
    Voting Rights 
      Class A1 
    Other Secured Claims Against the EFH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class A2 
    Other Priority Claims Against the EFH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class A3 
    Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class A4 
    EFH Legacy Note Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A5 
    EFH Unexchanged Note Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A6 
    EFH LBO Note Primary Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A7 
    EFH Swap Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A8 
    EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A9 
    General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp. 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A10 
    General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A11 
    Tex-La Guaranty Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A12 
    TCEH Settlement Claim 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class A13 
    EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Unimpaired/ 
  Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept or Reject) 
      Class A14 
    Non-EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 
      Class A15 
    Interests in EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. 
    Unimpaired/ 
  Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept or Reject) 
      Class A16 
    Interests in EFH Corp. 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 

2.Class Identification for the EFIH Debtors. 
  The Plan constitutes a separate chapter 11 plan of reorganization for each EFIH Debtor, each of which shall include the classifications set forth below.  Subject to Article III.D of the Plan, to the extent that a Class contains Claims or Interests only with respect to one or more particular EFIH Debtors, such Class applies solely such EFIH Debtor.   
  The following chart represents the classification of Claims and Interests for each EFIH Debtor pursuant to the Plan. 
                     Class 
    Claims and Interests 
    Status 
    Voting Rights 
      Class B1 
    Other Secured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 

54 

Class 
    Claims and Interests 
    Status 
    Voting Rights 
      Class B2 
    Other Priority Claims Against the EFIH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class B3 
    EFIH First Lien Note Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class B4 
    EFIH Second Lien Note Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class B5 
    EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class B6 
    General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class B7 
    EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Unimpaired/ 
  Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept or Reject) 
      Class B8 
    Non-EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 
      Class B9 
    Interest in EFIH 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class B10 
    Interests in EFIH Finance 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 

3.Class Identification for the TCEH Debtors. 
  The Plan constitutes a separate chapter 11 plan of reorganization for each TCEH Debtor, each of which shall include the classifications set forth below.  Subject to Article III.D of the Plan, to the extent that a Class contains Claims or Interests only with respect to one or more particular TCEH Debtors, such Class applies solely to such TCEH Debtor.   
  The following chart represents the classification of Claims and Interests for each TCEH Debtor pursuant to the Plan. 
                     Class 
    Claims and Interests 
    Status 
    Voting Rights 
      Class C1 
    Other Secured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class C2 
    Other Priority Claims Against the TCEH Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class C3 
    TCEH First Lien Secured Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class C4 
    TCEH Unsecured Debt Claims 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote  
      Class C5 
    General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH 
    Impaired 
    Entitled to Vote 
      Class C6 
    General Unsecured Claims Against EFCH 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 
      Class C7 
    TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Unimpaired/ 
  Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept or Reject) 
      Class C8 
    Non-TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 
      Class C9 
    Interests in TCEH Debtors Other Than TCEH and EFCH 
    Unimpaired/ 
  Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept or Reject) 
      Class C10 
    Interests in TCEH and EFCH 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 

4.Class Identification for the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
  The Plan constitutes a separate chapter 11 plan of reorganization for each   EFH Shared Services Debtor  , each of which shall include the classifications set forth below.  Subject to Article III.D of the Plan, to the extent that a 
    
  55 

Class contains Claims or Interests only with respect to one or more particular EFH Shared Services Debtors, such Class applies solely such EFH Shared Services Debtor.   
  The following chart represents the classification of Claims and Interests for each EFH Shared Services Debtor pursuant to the Plan. 
                     Class 
    Claims and Interests 
    Status 
    Voting Rights 
      Class D1 
    Other Secured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class D2 
    Other Priority Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class D3 
    General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 
      Class D4 
    EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Unimpaired/ 
  Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept or Reject) 
      Class D5 
    Non-EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims 
    Impaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Reject) 
      Class D6 
    Interests in EFH Shared Services Debtors 
    Unimpaired 
    Not Entitled to Vote (Deemed to Accept) 

B.Treatment of Claims and Interests. 
  To the extent a Class contains Allowed Claims or Allowed Interests with respect to any Debtor, the classification of Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests is specified below. 
  1.    Class A1 - Other Secured Claims Against the EFH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A1 consists of Other Secured Claims Against the EFH Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A1, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A1, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFH Debtor(s) with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash and payment of any interest required under section 506(b) and section 1129(b)(2)(i)(II) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
              (ii) 
    delivery of collateral securing any such Claim and payment of any interest required under section 506(b) and section 1129(b)(2)(i)(II) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
              (iii) 
    Reinstatement of such Claim; or 
              (iv) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A1 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class A1 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     2.    Class A2 - Other Priority Claims Against the EFH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A2 consists of Other Priority Claims Against the EFH Debtors. 

56 

(b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A2, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A2, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFH Debtor(s) with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; or 
              (ii) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class A2 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class A2 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     3.    Class A3 - Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A3 consists of Legacy General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A3, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A3, each such Holder shall receive Reinstatement of such Claim on the EFH Effective Date. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A3 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class A3 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     4.    Class A4 - EFH Legacy Note Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A4 consists of EFH Legacy Note Claims. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  Unless otherwise separately agreed by the Debtors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), and a Holder of a Class A4 Claim, as Class A4 Claims, the EFH Legacy Note Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the sum of:  (i) the principal amount outstanding, plus accrued but unpaid prepetition interest, under the EFH Legacy Note Indentures; and (ii) the amount of any other Claims (but in any case excluding any postpetition interest or Makewhole Claims) under the EFH Legacy Notes or EFH Legacy Note Indentures, if and to the extent such Claims are Allowed before the EFH Effective Date. 
              (c) 
    Treatment:    Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A4, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A4, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool. 

57 

(d) 
    Voting:    Class A4 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A4 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     5.    Class A5 - EFH Unexchanged Note Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A5 consists of EFH Unexchanged Note Claims. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  Unless otherwise separately agreed by the Debtors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, and a Holder of a Class A5 Claim, as Class A5 Claims, the EFH Unexchanged Note Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the sum of:  (i) the principal amount outstanding, plus accrued but unpaid prepetition interest, under the EFH 2019 Note Indenture and EFH 2020 Note Indenture, as applicable; and (ii) the amount of any other Claims (but in any case excluding any postpetition interest or Makewhole Claims) under the EFH Unexchanged Notes or EFH Unexchanged Notes Indentures, if and to the extent such Claims are Allowed, whether Allowed before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date. 
              (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), of an Allowed Claim in Class A5 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A5, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim: 
              (i) 
    its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool; and  
              (ii) 
    if the Class A5 Claims constitute EFH Beneficiary Claims, and solely to the extent of any portion of its Allowed Claim that is not paid in full pursuant to the preceding clause, its Pro Rata share of up to $5.8 million of the TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions, if any. 
              (d) 
    Voting:    Class A5 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A5 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan;   provided  ,   however  , that Class A5 must vote consistent with the Voting Indication to receive distributions, if any, under clause (c)(ii) above. 
     6.    Class A6 - EFH LBO Note Primary Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A6 consists of EFH LBO Note Primary Claims. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  Unless otherwise separately agreed by the Debtors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, and a Holder of a Class A6 Claim, as Class A6 Claims, the EFH LBO Note Primary Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the sum of:  (i) the principal amount outstanding, plus accrued but unpaid prepetition interest, under the EFH LBO Note Indenture; and (ii) the amount of any other Claims (but in any case excluding any postpetition interest or Makewhole Claims) under the EFH LBO Notes or EFH LBO Note Indenture, if and to the extent such Claims are Allowed before the EFH Effective Date. 
              (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A6, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A6, each such Holder shall receive, up to Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH 

58 

Creditor Recovery Pool;   provided  ,   however  , that in no event shall a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A6 receive more than a single satisfaction of such Allowed Claim, including any recovery received on account of an Allowed Claim in Class B5. 
           (d) 
    Voting:    Class A6 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A6 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     7.    Class A7 - EFH Swap Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A7 consists of EFH Swap Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A7, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A7, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A7 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A7 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     8.    Class A8 - EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A8 consists of EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A8, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A8, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim: 
              (i) 
    its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool; and 
              (ii) 
    if the Class A8 Claims constitute EFH Beneficiary Claims, and solely to the extent of any portion of its Allowed Claim that is not paid in full pursuant to the preceding clause, its Pro Rata share of up to $30 million in Cash on account of the TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions, if any. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A8 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A8 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan;   provided  ,   however  , that Class A8 must vote consistent with the Voting Indication to receive distributions, if any, under clause (b)(ii) above. 
     9.    Class A9 - General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A9 consists of General Unsecured Claims Against EFH Corp. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A9, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A9, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim: 

59 

(i) 
    its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool; and  
              (ii) 
    if the Class A9 Claims constitute EFH Beneficiary Claims, and solely to the extent of any portion of its Allowed Claim that is not paid in full pursuant to the preceding clause, its Pro Rata share of up to $2 million of the TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions, if any. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A9 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of allowed Claims in Class A9 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan;   provided  ,   however  , that Class A9 must vote consistent with the Voting Indication to receive distributions, if any, under clause (b)(ii) above. 
     10.    Class A10 - General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A10 consists of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A10, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A10, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A10 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A10 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     11.    Class A11 - Tex-La Guaranty Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A11 consists of the Tex-La Guaranty Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class A11, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class A11, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool;   provided  ,   however  , that in no event shall a Holder of an Allowed Class A11 Claim receive more than a full recovery on account of its Claim, including any recovery as an Allowed Class C1 Claim. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class A11 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class A11 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     12.    Class A12 - TCEH Settlement Claim. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A12 consists of the TCEH Settlement Claim. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  Unless otherwise separately agreed by the Debtors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, the TCEH Settlement Claim is Allowed in the amount of $700 million. 

60 

(c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agree to a less favorable treatment of the TCEH Settlement Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for the TCEH Settlement Claim, TCEH or Reorganized TCEH, as applicable, shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of EFH Corp. Claims) of the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool   less   any TCEH Settlement Claim Turnover Distributions;   provided  ,   however,   that such recoveries shall be distributed directly to the Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims, as set forth in Article III.B.29, and TCEH or Reorganized TCEH, as applicable, shall never have control, possession, title, or ownership of the recovery for any purpose (except that Reorganized TCEH may nominally hold the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim but the Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims will hold all legal and equitable entitlement to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim). 
              (d) 
    Voting:    Class A12 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan on behalf of TCEH. 
     13.    Class A13 - EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A13 consists of EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be, at the option of the EFH Debtors with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    Reinstated; or 
              (ii) 
    canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims; 
     provided  ,   however  , that Class A13 Claims of EFH Corp., LSGT Gas Company LLC, EECI, Inc., EEC Holdings, Inc., and LSGT SACROC, Inc. against one or more of EFH Corp., LSGT Gas Company LLC, EECI, Inc., EEC Holdings, Inc., and LSGT SACROC, Inc. shall be Reinstated.   
           (c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Claims in Class A13 are conclusively deemed to have accepted or rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) or section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, respectively.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     14.    Class A14 - Non-EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A14 consists of Non-EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  : Non-EFH Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims.  
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class A14 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class A14 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 

61 

15.    Class A15 - Interests in the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A15 consists of Interests in the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Interests in the EFH Debtors Other Than EFH Corp. shall be, at the option of the EFH Debtors with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    Reinstated; or 
              (ii) 
    canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Interests; 
     provided  ,   however  , that Interests in Debtors LSGT Gas Company LLC, EECI, Inc., EEC Holdings, Inc., and LSGT SACROC, Inc. shall be Reinstated. 
           (c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Interests in Class A15 are conclusively deemed to have accepted or rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) or section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, respectively.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     16.    Class A16 - Interests in EFH Corp. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class A16 consists of Interests in EFH Corp. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Interests in EFH Corp. shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Interests. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class A16 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Interests in Class A16 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     17.    Class B1 - Other Secured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B1 consists of Other Secured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B1, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class B1, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFIH Debtor(s) with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; 
              (ii) 
    delivery of collateral securing any such Claim and payment of any interest required under section 506(b) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
              (iii) 
    Reinstatement of such Claim; or 
              (iv) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class B1 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class B1 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject 

62 

the Plan. 
  18.    Class B2 - Other Priority Claims Against the EFIH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B2 consists of Other Priority Claims Against the EFIH Debtors.   
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B2, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class B2, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFIH Debtor(s) with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; or 
              (ii) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class B2 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class B2 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     19.    Class B3 - EFIH First Lien Note Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification:    Class B3 consists of EFIH First Lien Note Claims, if any. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  As Class B3 Claims, the EFIH First Lien Note Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the sum of:   
              (i) 
    any accrued but unpaid prepetition interest (including any Additional Interest and interest on interest) at the applicable rate set forth in, and calculated in accordance with, the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture, the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, as applicable;  
              (ii) 
    any accrued but unpaid postpetition interest (including any Additional Interest and interest on interest) at the applicable rate set forth in, and calculated in accordance with, the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture, the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, as applicable, through the closing date of the EFIH First Lien DIP Facility (excluding interest on interest, which shall be through the EFH Effective Date);  
              (iii) 
    subject to any review / allowance process ordered by the Court pursuant to the Reserve Order (if the Settlement Approval Order is not entered) all reasonable and documented fees and expenses and indemnification claims, (and interest thereon, including Additional Interest and interest on interest, to the extent provided for by the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture, the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, in each case if and solely to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date), whether incurred or accruing before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, including those reasonable and documented fees and expenses and indemnification claims incurred in connection with any appeal, remand, or other litigation of any Makewhole Claims, (a) that (with respect only to such fees, 

63 

expenses and claims incurred prior to the EFH Effective Date) are allowed under section 506(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and (b) that are owed under the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture, the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement; and 
           (iv) 
    if and solely to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, the amount of any other Claims, including any Makewhole Claims, and interest thereon, including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Additional Interest and interest on interest (whether accruing before, on or after the EFH Effective Date, at the applicable rate, and as calculated in accordance with the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture, the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, as applicable, or otherwise, if and solely to the extent such Claims are held to be allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date); 
     provided  ,   however  , that on the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee shall be granted the Replacement EFIH First Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve, which Replacement EFIH First Lien shall not be released until all EFIH First Lien Note Claims have either been (i) Allowed (whether before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date) and paid in full (to the extent Allowed), including all interest thereon solely to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, in Cash or (ii) disallowed by Final Order, and which Replacement EFIH First Lien shall have priority over the Replacement EFIH Second Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Replacement EFIH First Lien shall not apply to the Makewhole Stock Reserve or the stock therein, and in no circumstance shall Holders of EFIH First Lien Note Claims be entitled to such stock.  Furthermore, except as provided otherwise in the EFH Confirmation Order and in any Reserve Order, notwithstanding the grant of the Replacement EFIH First Lien, nothing herein shall prevent the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or the EFIH Unsecured Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following entry of the Reserve Order  .    The Replacement EFIH First Lien shall include the following terms (to be set forth in the Reserve Order and/or such other agreements and instruments as the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee may agree, each in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and acceptable to the Plan Sponsor): 
             
    On the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH Debtors shall grant the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee a perfected, first-priority security interest in and Lien upon the EFIH Claims Reserve and on all Cash and any other assets deposited at any time (whether on or after the EFH Effective Date) in the EFIH Claims Reserve and all proceeds thereof.  The EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee shall have control of the EFIH Claims Reserve (and all assets therein and all proceeds thereof) pursuant to such arrangements as may be necessary or appropriate under applicable law (including a control agreement and/or maintaining any bank account in which EFIH Claims Reserve funds are deposited with the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee or with a bank that agrees to enter into a subordination agreement in favor of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee) to ensure that the Replacement EFIH First Lien will remain properly perfected at all times on and after the EFH Effective Date and that no other entity (including any bank or securities intermediary) will obtain any security interest in, Lien upon, or setoff right with respect to, the EFIH Claims Reserve (or any assets therein or any proceeds thereof), other than the Replacement EFIH Second Lien granted 

64 

pursuant to Article III.B.20 of this Plan. 
             
    Except solely for the Replacement EFIH Second Lien, no security interest or Lien shall be granted at any time on or after the EFIH Effective Date in or upon the EFIH Claims Reserve (or any Cash or other assets therein or any proceeds thereof).  The Replacement EFIH First Lien shall be a senior lien with priority over the Replacement EFIH Second Lien, and the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and Holders of EFIH First Lien Note Claims shall have priority in right of payment over the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee and Holders of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims from the EFIH Claims Reserve.  
                
    The EFIH Claims Reserve shall be invested in a manner consistent with section 345 of the Bankruptcy Code, and all investment decisions with respect of the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be subject to prior written consent of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee. 
                
    The EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement shall govern the rights and obligations of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee (and Holders of EFIH First Lien Note Claims), on the one hand, and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee (and Holders of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims), on the other hand, with respect to the EFIH Claims Reserve (and all Cash and other assets therein and any proceeds thereof), which shall be deemed to be Collateral (as such term is defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement) granted to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, in its capacity as Collateral Trustee (as such term is defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement), to secure the payment of the Parity Lien Obligations (as such term is defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement and which term, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be deemed to include the EFIH First Lien Note Claims) and the Junior Lien Obligations (as such term is defined in the Collateral Trust Agreement and which term, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be deemed to include the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims);   provided, however  , none of the foregoing is intended, nor shall be interpreted, to limit the Debtors  ability to distribute the EFIH Second Lien Note Repayment Amount should the Bankruptcy Court authorize such distribution in the EFH Confirmation Order or otherwise. 
                
    If the Settlement Approval Order is not entered on or before the EFH Effective Date, then following the funding of the EFIH Claims Reserve on the EFH Effective Date, there shall be no distributions or disbursements from the EFIH Claims Reserve, except as set forth in subclauses (a)-(c) of the definition of EFIH Claims Reserve, to any entity, account, or reserve (including any Holder of any Claim or Interest, including the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee or any Holder of the EFIH Unsecured Notes, or any professional or other representative of any such Holder or Trustee; the EFH Plan Administrator Board or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or any of their respective professionals or other representatives; or the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, the MLOC Account, or the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account) until (a) the EFIH Settlement Approval Order is entered or (b) if the relief entered in the EFIH Settlement Approval Motion is denied, entry of the Reserve Order, and pursuant to the terms of the Reserve Order, and without prejudice to the rights of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or the EFIH Unsecured Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following entry of the Reserve Order.  Amounts included in the EFIH Claims Reserve (and any Liens thereon) immediately prior to entry of the 

65 

Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order shall, subject to the terms of Article VI.A. hereof, be released or distributed into segregated accounts in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, to the extent provided in accordance with the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order, as applicable, and only those amounts, if any, remaining in the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be subject to the Replacement Liens granted pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, subject to the terms of any Reserve Order. 
           (c) 
    Treatment  : Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B3, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) and the consent of the Initial Supporting Creditors (prior to the appointment of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee) or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, payment in full in Cash. 
              (d) 
    Voting  :  Class B3 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class B3 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     20.    Class B4 - EFIH Second Lien Note Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B4 consists of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  Unless otherwise separately agreed by the Debtors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, and a Holder of a Class B4 Claim, as Class B4 Claims, the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the sum of:   
              (i) 
    the principal amount outstanding, plus accrued but unpaid prepetition interest (including any Additional Interest and interest on interest) at the applicable rate set forth in, and calculated in accordance with, the EFIH Second Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, as applicable;  
              (ii) 
    any accrued but unpaid postpetition interest (including any Additional Interest and interest on interest) on such principal at the applicable rate set forth in, and calculated in accordance with, the EFIH Second Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, as applicable, through the EFH Effective Date; 
              (iii) 
    subject to any review / allowance process ordered by the Court pursuant to the Reserve Order (if the Settlement Approval Order is not entered), all reasonable and documented fees and expenses and indemnification claims, whether incurred or accruing before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, including those reasonable and documented fees and expenses and indemnification claims incurred in connection with any appeal, remand, or other litigation of any Makewhole Claims, (a) that (with respect only to such fees, expenses and claims incurred prior to the EFH Effective Date) are allowed under section 506(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and (b) that are owed under the EFIH Second Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement (and interest thereon, to the extent provided by such notes, indentures, or agreements solely to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date), as applicable; and 
              (iv) 
    if and solely to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, the amount of any other Claims, including any Makewhole Claims, and interest thereon, including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Additional Interest and 

66 

interest on interest (whether accruing before, on or after the EFH Effective Date, as calculated in accordance with the EFIH Second Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, as applicable, or otherwise, if and solely to the extent such Claims are held to be allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date) of the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee or Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes; 
  provided  ,   however  , that on the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee shall be granted the Replacement EFIH Second Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve, which Replacement EFIH Second Lien shall not be released until all EFIH Second Lien Note Claims have either been (i) Allowed (whether before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date) and paid in full (to the extent Allowed), including all interest thereon solely to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, in Cash or (ii) disallowed by Final Order, and which Replacement EFIH Second Lien shall be junior in all respects to the Replacement EFIH First Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Replacement EFIH Second Lien shall not apply to the Makewhole Stock Reserve or the stock therein, and in no circumstance shall Holders of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims be entitled to such stock.  Furthermore, except as provided otherwise in the EFH Confirmation Order and in any Reserve Order, notwithstanding the grant of the Replacement EFIH Second Lien, nothing herein shall prevent the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or the EFIH Unsecured Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following entry of the Reserve Order  .    The Replacement EFIH Second Lien shall include the following terms (to be set forth in the Reserve Order and/or such other agreements and instruments as the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee may agree, each in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee and acceptable to the Plan Sponsor): 
             
    On the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH Debtors shall grant the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee a perfected, second-priority security interest in and second-priority Lien upon the EFIH Claims Reserve and on all Cash and any other assets deposited at any time (whether on or after the EFH Effective Date) in the EFIH Claims Reserve and all proceeds thereof.  The EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee shall have a second-priority control agreement of the EFIH Claims Reserve (and all assets therein and all proceeds thereof) pursuant to such arrangements as may be necessary or appropriate under applicable law (including a second-priority control agreement and/or maintaining any bank account in which EFIH Claims Reserve funds are deposited with the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee or with a bank that agrees to enter into second-priority subordination agreement in favor of the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee and subordinate to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee subordination agreement) to ensure that the Replacement EFIH Second Lien will remain properly perfected at all times on and after the EFH Effective Date and that no other entity (including any bank or securities intermediary) will obtain any security interest in, Lien upon, or setoff right with respect to, the EFIH Claims Reserve (or any assets therein or any proceeds thereof), other than the Replacement EFIH First Lien, and the Replacement EFIH Second Lien granted pursuant to Article III.B.20 of this Plan. 
                
    Except solely for the Replacement EFIH First Lien (which shall be senior to the Replacement EFIH Second Lien), no security interest or Lien shall be granted at any time on or after the EFIH Effective Date in or upon the EFIH Claims 

67 

Reserve (or any Cash or other assets therein or any proceeds thereof).   
             
    The EFIH Claims Reserve shall be invested in a manner consistent with section 345 of the Bankruptcy Code, and all investment decisions with respect of the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be subject to prior written consent of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee. 
                
    If the Settlement Approval Order is not entered on or before the EFH Effective Date, then following the funding of the EFIH Claims Reserve on the EFH Effective Date, there shall be no distributions or disbursements from the EFIH Claims Reserve, except as set forth in subclauses (a)-(c) of the definition of EFIH Claims Reserve, to any entity, account, or reserve (including any Holder of any Claim or Interest, including the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee or any Holder of the EFIH Unsecured Notes, or any professional or other representative of any such Holder or Trustee; the EFH Plan Administrator Board or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or any of their respective professionals or other representatives; or the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, the MLOC Account, or the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account) until (a) the EFIH Settlement Approval Order is entered or (b) if the relief entered in the EFIH Settlement Approval Motion is denied, entry of the Reserve Order, and pursuant to the terms of the Reserve Order, and without prejudice to the rights of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or the EFIH Unsecured Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following entry of the Reserve Order.  Amounts included in the EFIH Claims Reserve (and any Liens thereon) immediately prior to entry of the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order shall, subject to the terms of Article VI.A. hereof, be released or distributed into segregated accounts in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, to the extent provided in accordance with the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order, as applicable, and only those amounts, if any, remaining in the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be subject to the Replacement Liens granted pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, subject to the terms of any Reserve Order. 
       
           (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B4, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) and the consent of the Initial Supporting Creditors (prior to the appointment of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee) or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, payment in full in Cash. 
              (d) 
    Voting  :  Class B4 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class B4 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     21.    Class B5 - EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B5 consists of EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  Unless otherwise separately agreed by the Debtors, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, and a Holder of a Class B5 Claim, as Class B5 Claims, the EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the sum of:  (i) the principal amount outstanding, plus accrued but unpaid prepetition interest, under the EFH LBO Note Indenture; (ii) accrued postpetition interest on such principal at the Federal 

68 

Judgment Rate; and (iii) the amount of any other Claims (but in any case excluding any Makewhole Claims) under the EFH LBO Notes or EFH LBO Note Indentures, if and to the extent such Claims are Allowed, whether Allowed before, on or after the EFH Effective Date.    
           (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B5, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class B5, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of Allowed EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims and Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors) of the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Recovery Pool;   provided  ,   however  , that in no event shall a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B5 receive more than a single satisfaction of such Allowed Claim, including any recovery received on account of an Allowed Claim in Class A6. 
              (d) 
    Voting:    Class B5 is Impaired under the Plan. Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class B5 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     22.    Class B6 - General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B6 consists of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  As Class B6 Claims, the EFIH Unsecured Note Claims are Allowed in an amount equal to the Allowed EFIH General Unsecured Claim. 
              (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class B6, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class B6, each such Holder shall receive, up to the Allowed amount of its Claim, its Pro Rata share (calculated based on the aggregate amount of Allowed EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims and Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against the EFIH Debtors) of the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Recovery Pool;   provided further   that if Class B6 votes in favor of the Plan, all Holders of EFIH Unsecured Notes Claims will be bound by the terms of the PIK Settlement and all Holders of EFIH Unsecured Notes Claims will be barred from seeking additional recovery on account of any Makewhole Claims or Claims arising in connection with the accrual of postpetition interest. 
              (d) 
    Voting:    Class B6 is Impaired under the Plan. Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class B6 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     23.    Class B7 - EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B7 consists of EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be, at the option of the EFIH Debtors with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, either: 
              (i) 
    Reinstated; or 
              (ii) 
    canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims. 

69 

(c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Claims in Class B7 are conclusively deemed to have accepted or rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) or section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, respectively.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     24.    Class B8 - Non-EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B8 consists of Non-EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Non-EFIH Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims.  
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class B8 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class B8 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     25.    Class B9 - Interest in EFIH. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B9 consists of the Interest in EFIH. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  The Interest in EFIH shall be Reinstated. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class B9 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  The Holder of the Interest in Class B9 is conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holder is not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     26.    Class B10 - Interests in EFIH Finance. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class B10 consists of Interests in EFIH Finance. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Interests in EFIH Finance shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Interests. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class B10 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Interests in Class B10 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     27.    Class C1 - Other Secured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C1 consists of Other Secured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class C1 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class C1, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable TCEH Debtor(s) with the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash and payment of any interest required under section 506(b) and section 1129(b)(2)(i)(II) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
              (ii) 
    delivery of collateral securing any such Claim and payment of any interest 

70 

required under section 506(b) and section 1129(b)(2)(i)(II) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
           (iii) 
    Reinstatement of such Claim; or 
              (iv) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired; 
     provided  ,   however  , that the Tex-La Obligations may receive treatment as Allowed Class C1 Claims on or before the TCEH Effective Date with the prior written consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors. 
           (c) 
    Voting:    Class C1 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class C1 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     28.    Class C2 - Other Priority Claims Against the TCEH Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C2 consists of Other Priority Claims Against the TCEH Debtors.   
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class C2 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class C2, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable TCEH Debtor(s) with the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; or 
              (ii) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class C2 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class C2 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     29.    Class C3 - TCEH First Lien Secured Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C3 consists of TCEH First Lien Secured Claims. 
              (b) 
    Allowance  :  As Class C3 Claims, (i) the TCEH Credit Agreement Claims are Allowed in the amount of $22,863,271,257; (ii) the TCEH First Lien Note Claims are Allowed in the amount of $1,815,965,278; (iii) the TCEH First Lien Swap Claims and TCEH First Lien Commodity Hedge Claims are Allowed in an aggregate amount no less than $1,230,817,606.94; and (iv) any Claims of the TCEH First Lien Administrative Agent, the TCEH First Lien Collateral Agent or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee for fees, expenses, or indemnification obligations arising under and pursuant to the TCEH Credit Agreement, the TCEH First Lien Notes Indenture, the TCEH First Lien Interest Rate Swaps, the TCEH First Lien Commodity Hedges, or the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement, as applicable, are Allowed in an amount to be determined.  
              (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class C3 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim (in a writing executed by such Holder after the Petition Date), in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class C3, subject to Article 

71 

III.B.29(d), each such Holder thereof shall receive its Pro Rata share (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be based on the Allowed amounts of such Claims as of the Petition Date as set forth in the Plan) of: 
           (i) 
    If the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2: 
              A. 
    100% of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock (following the Basis Step-Up), subject to dilution after the Distribution only on account of the Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan;  
              B. 
    100% of the (a) TCEH Debtors  Cash on hand and (b) net Cash proceeds from the issuance of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt (or, at the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors  election, all or a portion of such New Reorganized TCEH Debt) and the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, in each case after funding any Cash distributions required to be made by the TCEH Debtors under the Plan and providing for adequate post TCEH Effective Date liquidity for TCEH as determined by the TCEH Debtors with the reasonable consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors; 
              C. 
    the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any), subject to such Holder s completion and timely submission of the TRA Information Form; and 
              D. 
    any proceeds from the TCEH Settlement Claim if determined as of the TCEH Effective Date, and to the extent not determined as of the TCEH Effective Date, the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim;   provided  , that following the TCEH Effective Date, Reorganized TCEH will nominally hold the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim but the Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims will hold all legal and equitable entitlement to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim. 
              (ii) 
    If the Taxable Separation is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2: 
              A. 
    100% of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, subject to dilution only on account of the Reorganized TCEH     Debtor Management Incentive Plan; 
              B. 
    100% of the (1) TCEH Debtors  Cash on hand and (2) the net Cash proceeds from the New Reorganized TCEH Debt (or, at the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors  election, all or a portion of such New Reorganized TCEH Debt) and issuance of certain stock or securities in connection with the Taxable Separation, in each case after funding any Cash distributions required to be made by the TCEH Debtors under the Plan and providing for adequate post TCEH Effective Date liquidity for TCEH as determined by the TCEH Debtors with the reasonable consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors;  
              C. 
    the Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any), subject to such Holder s completion and timely submission of the TRA Information Form; and 
              D. 
    any proceeds from the TCEH Settlement Claim if determined as of the TCEH Effective Date, and to the extent not determined as of the TCEH 

72 

Effective Date, the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim;   provided  , that following the TCEH Effective Date, Reorganized TCEH will nominally hold the right to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim but the Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims will hold all legal and equitable entitlement to receive recoveries under the TCEH Settlement Claim. 
  In addition, on the TCEH Effective Date the TCEH First Lien Agent will be deemed to have delivered, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the TCEH Second Lien Intercreditor Agreement, any notice necessary to cause the automatic release and discharge of any and all Liens on the assets of the TCEH Debtors that secure the repayment of amounts due in respect of the TCEH Second Lien Notes. 
           (d) 
    Allocation:    Unless resolved before Confirmation, the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee and/or the Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims will continue to seek entry of the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order resolving the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Dispute through an adjudication of the TCEH First Lien Note Intercreditor Action or otherwise.  If a TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order is entered prior to the TCEH Effective Date and such order provides that Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims shall receive the TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions on a basis other than Pro Rata, then pursuant to section 510(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, any such TCEH First Lien Creditor Distribution that is subject to such TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order shall be distributed among the Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims in accordance with such TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order;   provided  ,   however  , that if a TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order has not been entered by the TCEH Effective Date, then the TCEH Debtors shall establish a reserve (in an amount to be determined by the TCEH Debtors, with the consent of each of the TCEH First Lien Agent, the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee, and any other parties to the TCEH First Lien Note Intercreditor Action) solely with respect to any TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions that remain subject to the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Dispute, with such reserved amounts to be distributed on a Pro Rata basis after entry of a TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order, unless and to the extent such order provides that Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims are entitled to a distribution of any TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions on a basis other than Pro Rata, in which case, pursuant to section 510(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, any such TCEH First Lien Creditor Distribution that is subject to such TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order shall be distributed among the Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims in accordance with such TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order.  Nothing in this Plan shall preclude any party from seeking enforcement of the TCEH First Lien Creditor Adequate Protection Payment Allocation Order or distribution of the Holdback Amount (as defined in the Cash Collateral Order) under the Cash Collateral Order.  For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Plan shall (i) require any Debtor or any other party (including, without limitation, the TCEH First Lien Administrative Agent, the TCEH First Lien Collateral Agent, or any holder of TCEH First Lien Claims), to establish any reserve with respect to any distributions that are subject to the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute or (ii) impair, prejudice, release, compromise or waive any claims any Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims may have against one or more other Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims (other than the TCEH First Lien Agent, except in the TCEH First Lien Agent s capacity as a nominal defendant to declaratory judgment claims in respect of which no monetary recovery is sought) pursuant to the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute. 

73 

(e) 
    Voting  :  Class C3 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class C3 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     30.    Class C4 - TCEH Unsecured Debt Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C4 consists of TCEH Unsecured Debt Claims. 
               (c) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class C4 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, and subject to Article IV.B.12 of the Plan, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class C4, each such Holder shall receive its Pro Rata (calculated based on the aggregate amount of Allowed Class C4 Claims and Allowed Class C5 Claims) share of the TCEH Cash Payment. 
              (d) 
    Voting:    Class C4 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class C4 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     31.    Class C5 - General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C5 consists of General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class C5 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, and subject to Article IV.B.12 of the Plan, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class C5, each such Holder shall receive its Pro Rata (calculated based on the aggregate amount of Allowed Class C4 Claims and Allowed Class C5 Claims) share of the TCEH Cash Payment. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class C5 is Impaired under the Plan.  Therefore, Holders of Allowed Claims in Class C5 are entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     32.    Class C6 - General Unsecured Claims Against EFCH. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C6 consists of General Unsecured Claims Against EFCH. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  General Unsecured Claims Against EFCH shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims.  
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class C6 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class C6 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     33.    Class C7 - TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C7 consists of TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be, at the option of the 

74 

applicable TCEH Debtor(s) with the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), either: 
           (i) 
    Reinstated; or 
              (ii) 
    canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims; 
     provided  ,   however  , that TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims against each of EFCH, TCEH, or TCEH Finance and any TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claim derived from or based upon the Repurchased PCRBs shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims. 
           (c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Claims in Class C7 are conclusively deemed to have accepted or rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) or section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, respectively.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     34.    Class C8 - Non-TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C8 consists of Non-TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Non-TCEH Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class C8 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class C8 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     35.    Class C9 - Interests in TCEH Debtors Other Than TCEH and EFCH. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C9 consists of Interests in TCEH Debtors Other Than TCEH and EFCH. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Interests in TCEH Debtors Other Than TCEH and EFCH shall be with the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, either: 
              (i) 
    Reinstated; or 
              (ii) 
    canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Interests. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Interests in Class C9 are conclusively deemed to have accepted or rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) or section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, respectively.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     36.    Class C10 - Interests in TCEH and EFCH. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class C10 consists of Interests in TCEH and EFCH. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Interests in TCEH and EFCH shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Interests. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class C10 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Interests in Class C10 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the 

75 

Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
  37.    Class D1 - Other Secured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class D1 consists of Other Secured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class D1 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class D1, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFH Shared Services Debtor(s) either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; 
              (ii) 
    delivery of collateral securing any such Claim and payment of any interest required under section 506(b) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
              (iii) 
    Reinstatement of such Claim; or 
              (iv) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting:    Class D1 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class D1 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     38.    Class D2 - Other Priority Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class D2 consists of Other Priority Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors.   
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class D2 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class D2, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFH Shared Services Debtor(s), either: 
              (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; or 
              (ii) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class D2 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class D2 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     39.    Class D3 - General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class D3 consists of General Unsecured Claims Against the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  Except to the extent that a Holder of an Allowed Claim in Class D3 agrees to a less favorable treatment of its Allowed Claim, in full and final satisfaction, 

76 

settlement, release, and discharge of and in exchange for each Allowed Claim in Class D3, each such Holder shall receive, at the option of the applicable EFH Shared Services Debtor(s), either: 
           (i) 
    payment in full in Cash; 
              (ii) 
    Reinstatement of such Claim; or 
              (iii) 
    other treatment rendering such Claim Unimpaired. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class D3 is Unimpaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class D3 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     40.    Class D4 - EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class D4 consists of EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  :  EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be, at the option of the applicable EFH Shared Services Debtor(s), either: 
              (i) 
    Reinstated; or 
              (ii) 
    canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Claims in Class D4 are conclusively deemed to have accepted or rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) or section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, respectively.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     41.    Class D5 - Non-EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class D5 consists of Non-EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims. 
              (b) 
    Treatment  : Non-EFH Shared Services Debtor Intercompany Claims shall be canceled and released without any distribution on account of such Claims.  
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Class D5 is Impaired under the Plan.  Holders of Claims in Class D5 are conclusively deemed to have rejected the Plan pursuant to section 1126(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
     42.    Class D6 - Interests in the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
           (a) 
    Classification  :  Class D6 consists of Interests in the EFH Shared Services Debtors. 

77 

(b) 
    Treatment  :  Interests in the EFH Shared Services Debtors shall be Reinstated. 
              (c) 
    Voting  :  Holders of Interests in Class D6 are conclusively deemed to have accepted the Plan pursuant to section 1126(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Therefore, such Holders are not entitled to vote to accept or reject the Plan. 
              C. 
    Special Provision Governing Unimpaired Claims. 
     Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, nothing under the Plan shall affect the Debtors  rights in respect of any Unimpaired Claims, including all rights in respect of legal and equitable defenses to or setoffs or recoupments against any such Unimpaired Claims. 
  D.      Elimination of Vacant Classes. 
  Any Class of Claims or Interests that, as of the commencement of the Confirmation Hearing, does not have at least one Holder of a Claim or Interest that is Allowed in an amount greater than zero for voting purposes pursuant to the Disclosure Statement Order shall be considered vacant, deemed eliminated from the Plan for purposes of voting to accept or reject the Plan, and disregarded for purposes of determining whether the Plan satisfies section 1129(a)(8) of the Bankruptcy Code with respect to that Class. 
   Section 1129(a)(10) of the Bankruptcy Code shall be satisfied for purposes of Confirmation by acceptance of the Plan by one or more of the Classes entitled to vote pursuant to Article III.B of the Plan.  The Debtors shall seek Confirmation of the Plan pursuant to section 1129(b) of the Bankruptcy Code with respect to any rejecting Class of Claims or Interests. 
           F. 
    Controversy Concerning Impairment. 
     If a controversy arises as to whether any Claims or Interests, or any Class of Claims or Interests, are Impaired, the Bankruptcy Court shall, after notice and a hearing, determine such controversy on or before the Confirmation Date. 
           G. 
    Subordinated Claims and Interests. 
     The allowance, classification, and treatment of all Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests and the respective distributions and treatments under the Plan take into account and conform to the relative priority and rights of the Claims and Interests in each Class in connection with any contractual, legal, and equitable subordination rights relating thereto, whether arising under general principles of equitable subordination, section 510(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, or otherwise.  Pursuant to section 510 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors reserve the right to re-classify any Allowed Claim in accordance with any contractual, legal, or equitable subordination relating thereto.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Plan gives effect to the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement and no additional changes to the allowance, classification, treatment, or distributions shall be made as a result of the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement except for any such changes provided for or otherwise consistent with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order as contemplated by Article III.B.29 of the Plan;   provided  , that notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall impair, prejudice, release, compromise or waive the rights, claims, Causes of Action, defenses or remedies of any Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims against any other Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims (other than the TCEH First Lien Agent, except in the TCEH First Lien Agent s capacity as a nominal defendant to declaratory judgment claims in respect of which no monetary recovery is sought) in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the TCEH First Lien Agent and the Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Claims shall be deemed to have waived any rights under the TCEH Second Lien Intercreditor Agreement to extent such rights would, in any way, impair or diminish the recoveries of the Holders of Allowed TCEH Second Lien Note Claims under this Plan or related documents. 

78 

ARTICLE IV. 
  MEANS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN 
           A. 
    General Settlement of Claims and Interests. 
     Pursuant to section 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rule 9019, and in consideration for the classification, distributions, releases, and other benefits provided under the Plan, upon the Effective Date, the provisions of the Plan shall constitute a good faith compromise and settlement of all Claims and Interests and controversies resolved pursuant to the Plan.  Subject to Article VI of the Plan, all distributions made to Holders of Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests in any Class are intended to be and shall be final. 
           B. 
    Restructuring Transactions. 
     1.    Restructuring Transactions. 
  On the Effective Date, the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, will effectuate the Restructuring Transactions, and will take any actions as may be necessary or advisable to effect a corporate restructuring of their respective businesses or a corporate restructuring of the overall corporate structure of the Debtors, to the extent provided herein or in the Transaction Agreements.  The actions to implement the Restructuring Transactions may include:  (a) the execution and delivery of appropriate agreements, including Transaction Agreements, or other documents of merger, amalgamation, consolidation, restructuring, conversion, disposition, transfer, arrangement, continuance, dissolution, sale, purchase, or liquidation containing terms that are consistent with the terms of the Plan and that satisfy the requirements of applicable law and any other terms to which the applicable Entities may agree; (b) the execution and delivery of appropriate instruments of transfer, assignment, assumption, or delegation of any asset, property, right, liability, debt, or obligation on terms consistent with the terms of the Plan and having other terms for which the applicable parties agree; (c) the filing of appropriate certificates or articles of incorporation, formation, reincorporation, merger, consolidation, conversion, amalgamation, arrangement, continuance, dissolution, or other organizational documents pursuant to applicable state law; and (d) all other actions that the applicable Entities determine to be necessary or advisable, including making filings or recordings that may be required by law in connection with the Plan, in each case with the consent of (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), and in form and substance reasonably acceptable to, (i) the Plan Sponsor if related to or affecting any EFH Debtor or EFIH Debtor, any Reorganized EFH Debtor, any EFIH Debtor, any Reorganized EFIH Debtor, the Plan Sponsor, or any pre-Merger Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor and (ii) the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors if related to or affecting any TCEH Debtor or EFH Shared Services Debtor, any Reorganized TCEH Debtor, any Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtor, or the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors. 
  The Confirmation Order shall and shall be deemed to, pursuant to both section 1123 and section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, authorize, among other things, all actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect any transaction described in, approved by, contemplated by, or necessary to effectuate the Plan, including the Restructuring Transactions. 
  2.    Manner of TCEH Debtors  Separation from EFH Debtors. 
  The TCEH Debtors shall be separated from the EFH Debtors pursuant to either the Spin-Off or the Taxable Separation; provided that the Tax Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement, and the Separation Agreement must be in full force and effect and, in each case, be in form and substance acceptable to the Plan Sponsor.  If (a) the Spin-Off Conditions are satisfied on or before the Spin-Off Conditions Termination Date and (b) the Spin-Off Conditions remain satisfied as of the TCEH Effective Date, then the TCEH Debtors will effectuate the Spin-Off on the TCEH Effective Date.  In all other circumstances, the TCEH Debtors will effectuate the Taxable Separation on the TCEH Effective Date. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Spin-Off Conditions are not satisfied on or before the Spin-Off Conditions Termination Date for any reason, the Plan as it relates to the TCEH Debtors shall automatically be effectuated pursuant to the Taxable Separation; provided that the Tax Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement, and the Separation Agreement must be in full force and effect and, in each case, be in form and substance acceptable to the Plan Sponsor.   

79 

(a) 
    Spin-Off.  If applicable, the TCEH Debtors will undertake the Spin-Off, as follows:   
              A. 
    TCEH formed Reorganized TCEH prior to the TCEH Effective Date;  
              B. 
    on the TCEH Effective Date, except for liabilities assumed by Reorganized TCEH pursuant to the Plan, TCEH shall assume the obligations of its subsidiaries that are TCEH Debtors to make distributions pursuant to and in accordance with the Plan that are to be made after the TCEH Effective Date;  
              C. 
    pursuant to the Separation Agreement, TCEH and the EFH Debtors will make the Contribution to Reorganized TCEH, in exchange for which TCEH shall receive 100% of the (i) Reorganized TCEH membership interests and (ii) the net Cash proceeds of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt (or, at the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors  election, with the consent of the Debtors, all or a portion of such New Reorganized TCEH Debt);   
              D. 
    immediately following the Contribution, TCEH and Reorganized TCEH shall effectuate the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, including the distribution of the proceeds thereof to TCEH; 
              E. 
    immediately following the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, Reorganized TCEH shall undertake the Reorganized TCEH Conversion; and 
              F. 
    following the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, TCEH will make the Distribution, and all Claims against the TCEH Debtors (other than liabilities assumed by Reorganized TCEH pursuant to the Plan) will be cancelled in connection therewith. 
              (b) 
    Taxable Separation.  If applicable, the TCEH     Debtors will undertake the Taxable Separation, as set forth in the Taxable Separation Memorandum. 
     3.    TCEH Basis Step-Up. 
  If the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, pursuant to the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, gain will be triggered in an amount not in excess of, and in order to achieve, the Basis Step-Up. 
  4.    Transition Services Agreement; Separation Agreement; and Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement. 
  On the TCEH Effective Date, (a) EFH and TEX Operations Company LLC will enter into the Transition Services Agreement, if requested to do so by the Plan Sponsor or EFH Corp., (b) Reorganized TCEH, the EFH Debtors, and the EFIH Debtors will enter into the Separation Agreement; and (c) Oncor Electric and Reorganized TCEH will enter into the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement.  After the TCEH Effective Date, the Transition Services Agreement, Separation Agreement, and Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement shall only be amended or modified (x) in accordance with their respective terms and (y) with the consent of Reorganized TCEH and the Plan Sponsor. 
  5.    IPO Conversion Plan. 
  If requested by the Plan Sponsor, on the EFH Effective Date, EFH Corp. and EFIH will implement and exercise their rights, if any, as direct or indirect equity holders of Oncor, and take other actions within their reasonable control, to cause Oncor to implement the IPO Conversion Plan. 

80 

6.    Tax Matters Agreement. 
  On the TCEH Effective Date, EFH Corp., Reorganized TCEH, and EFIH shall enter into the Tax Matters Agreement.  After the TCEH Effective Date, the Tax Matters Agreement shall not be amended or modified in any manner without the written consent of Reorganized TCEH and the Plan Sponsor unless, with respect to the consent of the Plan Sponsor, the Merger Agreement shall have been terminated in accordance with its terms and without consummation of the Merger. 
  7.    Minority Interest Acquisition. 
  On or before the Effective Date, Merger Sub or an Affiliate thereof may, but shall not be required to, complete the Minority Interest Acquisition.  For the avoidance of doubt, implementation and/or consummation of the Minority Interest Acquisition shall not be a condition to Confirmation or the occurrence of the EFH Effective Date. 
  8.    Issuance and Allocation of Reorganized EFH Common Stock. 
  On the EFH Effective Date, immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time and after the Spin-Off, Reorganized EFH shall issue and deliver the Reorganized EFH Common Stock to the Disbursing Agent to hold on behalf of Holders of Claims or the Makewhole Stock Reserve, as applicable, in accordance with the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures.  For the avoidance of doubt, all distributions to Holders of Claims against the EFIH Debtors and EFH Debtors shall be made in accordance with the priorities set forth in the Bankruptcy Code. 
  9.    Merger, Merger Consideration, and Other Plan Sponsor Payments. 
  The Merger shall be effectuated and funded as follows on the EFH Effective Date in accordance with the Merger Agreement: 
           (a) 
    Reorganized EFH will merge with and into Merger Sub in a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, with Merger Sub being the surviving entity resulting from the Merger, on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement and pursuant to the Plan and the applicable provisions of Chapter 10 of the Texas Business Organizations Code and the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act.  Pursuant to the Merger, Merger Sub shall acquire all assets and liabilities of Reorganized EFH.   
              (b) 
    The Reorganized EFH Class A Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment at the Merger Effective Time and the Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive the NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment at the Merger Effective Time, and each of the NextEra Class A Common Stock and the NextEra Class B Common Stock shall be distributed to certain Holders of Claims in accordance with the Plan and the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures. 

81 

(c) 
    The Plan Sponsor shall, or shall cause an Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor to, deliver to EFIH by wire transfer of immediately available funds the EFIH First Lien DIP Repayment Amount, which shall be used to fund repayment of the EFIH First Lien DIP Claims, or, in lieu of making such wire transfer to EFIH, may transfer by wire transfer of immediately available funds the EFIH First Lien DIP Repayment Amount directly to the EFIH First Lien DIP Agent in accordance with terms of Section 1.3 of the Merger Agreement. 
              (d) 
    Merger Sub will deliver the Merger Sub Cash Amount by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the EFH Plan Administrator Board for deposit in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account;   provided, however  , that (a) on the EFH Effective Date, $100,000,000 of the Merger Sub Cash Amount shall be set aside and such amount shall be deposited and held in the Merger Sub Account in accordance with the terms thereof; and (b) if the Settlement Approval Order has not been entered on or before the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be funded from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account as set forth in the definition of EFIH Claims Reserve, subject to (1) entry of the Reserve Order, further segregating the funds in the EFIH Claims Reserve into separate funds within the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, including with respect to the Post-Effective Administrative Account and the MLOC Account, to the extent authorized by the Reserve Order, or (2) entry of the Settlement Approval Order.  Amounts included in the EFIH Claims Reserve (and any Liens thereon) immediately prior to entry of the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order shall, subject to the terms of Article VI.A. hereof, be released or distributed into segregated accounts in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, to the extent provided in accordance with the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order, as applicable, and only those amounts, if any, remaining in the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be subject to the Replacement Liens granted pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, subject to the terms of any Reserve Order. 
              (e) 
    EFIH will deposit any Cash on hand at EFIH as of the EFH Effective Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds into the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account;   provided  ,   however  , that (a) if the Settlement Order has not been entered on or before the EFH Effective Date, such EFIH Cash shall be funded from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account into the EFIH Claims Reserve, as set forth in the definition of EFIH Claims Reserve, subject to entry of the Reserve Order, further segregating the funds in the EFIH Claims Reserve (including the EFIH Cash) into separate funds within the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, including with respect to the Post-Effective Administrative Account and the MLOC Account, to the extent authorized by the Reserve Order.  Amounts included in the EFIH Claims Reserve (and any Liens thereon) immediately prior to entry of the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order shall, subject to the terms of Article VI.A. hereof, be released or distributed into segregated accounts in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, to the extent provided in accordance with the Reserve Order or the Settlement Approval Order, as applicable, and only those amounts, if any, remaining in the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be subject to the Replacement Liens granted pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, subject to the terms of any Reserve Order.   
              (f) 
    The EFH Plan Administrator Board shall fund payment of the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account on the EFH Effective Date to the extent such Claims are Allowed as of the EFH Effective Date, in accordance with Article III.B.19 and Article III.B.20 of the Plan or the Settlement Approval Order, as applicable;   provided, however  , that if such payments are not made on the EFH Effective Date, they shall be paid by the EFH Plan Administrator Board (a) from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, if the Settlement Approval Order has been entered as of the EFH Effective Date and (b) from the EFIH Claims Reserve, if the Settlement Approval Order has not been entered as of the EFH 

82 

Effective Date.  In the case of (b), the funds in the EFIH Claims Reserve shall remain in the EFIH Claims Reserve until such time either the Settlement Approval Order is entered or a Reserve Order is entered.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary herein, nothing shall prevent the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, the Initial Supporting Creditors, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee from seeking, after entry of the Reserve Order, if any, entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order from the Court (and the Court entering such order) (i) that the EFIH Claims Reserve is not required to include funds on account of, among other asserted Claims, post-Effective Date interest (including interest on interest and Additional Interest) and post-Effective Date fees and expenses (including interest), and (ii) directing the EFH Plan Administrator Board to release such funds from the EFIH Claims Reserve and make distributions to Holders of Allowed Class B5 and B6 Claims from such released funds. 
  After the EFH Effective Date, the Auditor shall conduct the Post-Closing Audit in accordance with the Merger Agreement.  If the Adjusted Company Cash Amount is greater than the Estimated Company Cash Amount, NextEra shall deliver by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the EFH Plan Administrator Board an amount equal to the difference in such amounts, to be distributed in accordance with the Plan.  If the Adjusted Company Cash Amount is less than the Estimated Company Cash Amount, NextEra shall receive, by wire transfer of immediately available funds from the EFH Plan Administrator Board, an amount equal to the difference in such amounts.  Upon conclusion of the Post-Closing Audit, the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall direct that an amount of Cash shall be transferred from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, including, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, from the EFIH Claims Reserve if sufficient Cash is otherwise unavailable in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account to (i) the EFH Creditor Recovery Pool equal to the amount, if any, by which the Adjusted Company Cash Amount exceeds the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment or (ii) NextEra equal to the amount, if any, by which the NextEra Common Stock Investment exceeds the sum of the Adjusted Company Cash Amount and the amount, if any, the Merger Sub Cash Amount was reduced pursuant to Section 1.7(a)(vi) of the Merger Agreement. 
  For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions in this Article IV.B.9 and the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures are intended to ensure the satisfaction of the continuity of interest requirement under sections 355 and 368 of the Internal Revenue Code, and reasonable adjustments shall be made, including by issuing additional shares of NextEra Common Stock (with a corresponding decrease in the Merger Sub Cash Amount), to the extent NextEra reasonably concludes such adjustments are necessary to ensure such satisfaction, and further reasonable adjustments shall be made to the allocation of NextEra Common Stock and the Merger Sub Cash Amount to account for the payment of Cash to the Holders of Allowed EFH Non-Qualified Benefit Claims in accordance with the Plan and the general provisions of this paragraph. 
  10.    Dissolution and Liquidation of Certain Subsidiaries of EFH Corp. 
           (a) 
    Dissolution and Liquidation of Certain TCEH Debtor Entities. 
     EFCH, TCEH, TCEH Finance, and such other TCEH Debtor entities (other than the TCEH Debtors being transferred in the Spin-Off and the EFH Shared Services Debtors) as designated by the TCEH Debtors and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, shall be dissolved and liquidated in accordance with the Plan and applicable law;   provided, however  , that EFCH and TCEH will not be liquidated until the EFH Effective Date, and shall remain subsidiaries of EFH Corp. that are disregarded from EFH Corp. for U.S. federal income tax purposes until such time;   provided  ,   further  , that EFCH and TCEH shall be liquidated no later than immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be on the EFH Effective Date as provided above) and, if not liquidated, shall be deemed dissolved immediately prior to the Merger Effective Time without any further court or corporate action, including the filing of any documents with the Secretary of State for any state in which either such Entity is incorporated or any other jurisdiction.  For the avoidance of doubt, none of (i) the TCEH First Lien Supporting Creditors (ii) the TCEH Debtors; (iii) the Reorganized TCEH Debtors; (iv) the EFH Shared Services Debtors; (v) the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, or (vi) with respect to each of the foregoing Entities in clauses (i) through (vi), such Entity and its current and former Affiliates, and such Entities  and their current and former Affiliates  current and former directors, managers, officers, equity holders (regardless of whether such 

83 

interests are held directly or indirectly), predecessors, successors, and assigns, subsidiaries, and each of their respective current and former equity holders, officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such, shall have or incur any liability whatsoever in connection with or as a result of the dissolution or liquidation of any entity, in accordance with the terms of this Article IV.B.10(a). 
           (b) 
    Dissolution and Liquidation of Certain EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors. 
     On or before the EFH Effective Date and before the Merger Effective Time, all EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, excluding: (a) EFH Corp.; (b) EFIH; (c) LSGT Gas Company LLC; (d) EECI, Inc., (e) EEC Holdings, Inc.; and (f) LSGT SACROC, Inc., not already disposed of, wound down, or liquidated in accordance with applicable law shall be deemed dissolved without any further court or corporate action, including the filing of any documents with the Secretary of State for any state in which any such subsidiary is incorporated or any other jurisdiction.  On the EFH Effective Date, equity interests in EFH Non-Debtors shall be abandoned pursuant to section 554 of the Bankruptcy Code;   provided  ,   however  , that equity interests in EFH Non-Debtor EFH Vermont Insurance Company shall not be abandoned and shall remain outstanding after the EFH Effective Date.  For the avoidance of doubt, none of (i) the Plan Sponsor; (ii) Merger Sub; (iii) the EFH Debtors; (iv) the Reorganized EFH Debtors; (v) EFIH; (vi) Reorganized EFIH; (vii) any other entity acquired, directly or indirectly, by the Plan Sponsor pursuant to the terms of, or as a result of, the Plan, the Merger Agreement, or any related agreement, or (viii) with respect to each of the foregoing Entities in clauses (i) through (vii), such Entity and its current and former Affiliates, and such Entities  and their current and former Affiliates  current and former directors, managers, officers, equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), predecessors, successors, and assigns, subsidiaries, and each of their respective current and former equity holders, officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such, shall have or incur any liability whatsoever in connection with or as a result of the wind-down, disposition, or liquidation of any entity, or the abandonment of the equity interests in any entity, in accordance with the terms of this Article IV.B.10, including, for the avoidance of doubt, the liquidation of EFCH and TCEH in accordance with Article IV.B.10(a). 
  11.    Implementation of the TCEH Settlement. 
  The TCEH Settlement Claim is in consideration for the terms and conditions embodied in the Plan and the Settlement Agreement, as applicable, including settlement of any prepetition Claim or Cause of Action of the TCEH Debtors against the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, Oncor, the Holders of Interests in EFH Corp., or their Affiliates, pursuant to Bankruptcy Rule 9019, approved by the Bankruptcy Court. 
  In addition, on the TCEH Effective Date, and for the purposes of this Plan and the settlements and compromises incorporated herein or contemplated hereby, (a) Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims will waive or be deemed to have waived, and the TCEH First Lien Agent will not take any action to interfere or that is inconsistent with the waiver of, any recovery or distribution on account of (but not voting rights in respect of) such Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims (including on account of any recovery or distribution provided for in Article III.B.30) for the benefit of Holders of Allowed TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claims, and (b) all distributions of the TCEH Cash Payment that would otherwise have been distributed to, or for the benefit of, Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims pursuant this Plan (including the distributions provided for in Article III.B.30) will instead be distributed Pro Rata to Holders of Allowed TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claims, such that each Holder of an Allowed TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claim receives a proportion thereof equal to the amount its Allowed TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claim bears to the aggregate amount of all Allowed TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claims;   provided, however,   that in full and final satisfaction, settlement, release, and discharge of all PCRB Claims and Causes of Action related to the PCRBs, PCRB Claims shall be deemed TCEH Deficiency Recipient Claims and Holders of Allowed PCRB Claims shall receive distributions of the TCEH Cash Payment that would otherwise have been distributed to, or for the benefit of, Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims pursuant to this Plan (including the distributions provided for in Article III.B.30) only to the extent necessary to cause the distributions pursuant to this Plan (including the distributions provided for in Article III.B.30) to Holders of Allowed PCRB Claims to equal 54% of the distributions the Holders of Allowed PCRB Claims would have received pursuant to this Plan if the Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims had been waived or deemed 

84 

to have been waived for the benefit of all Holders of Allowed TCEH Unsecured Debt Claims and Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH.  For the avoidance of doubt, under no circumstance will any Holder of an Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claim receive any recovery or distribution on account of such Allowed TCEH First Lien Deficiency Claims under the Plan (including on account of any recovery or distribution provided for in Article III.B.30). 
  Solely for purposes of allocating the TCEH Cash Payment among the Holders of Allowed TCEH Unsecured Note Claims, Allowed TCEH Second Lien Note Claims, Allowed PCRB Claims, and Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH:  (a) the Settlement Agreement Professional Fees of the TCEH Unsecured Ad Hoc Group and the TCEH Second Lien Consortium that (i) are actually paid pursuant to Paragraph P of the Settlement Order and (ii) are not subject to or covered by the TCEH Unsecured Notes Trustee s and TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee s  charging liens,  respectively, shall reduce Pro Rata the distributions to all holders of Allowed TCEH Unsecured Note Claims, Allowed TCEH Second Lien Note Claims, Allowed PCRB Claims, and Allowed General Unsecured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors Other Than EFCH based on the amounts of the respective distributions such Holders would otherwise receive but for such reduction and after taking into account the other provisions of this Article IV.B.11; (b) the Settlement Agreement Professional Fees  of the TCEH Unsecured Ad Hoc Group and TCEH Unsecured Notes Trustee that (i) are actually paid pursuant to Paragraph P of the Settlement Order and (ii) are subject to or covered by the TCEH Unsecured Note Trustee s  charging lien  shall reduce Pro Rata the distributions to Holders of Allowed TCEH Unsecured Notes Claims based on the amounts of their Allowed Claims; and (c) the Settlement Agreement Professional Fees of the TCEH Second Lien Consortium and TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee that (i) are actually paid pursuant to Paragraph P and (ii) are subject to or covered by the TCEH Second Lien Notes Trustee s  charging lien,  shall reduce Pro Rata the distributions to holders of Allowed TCEH Second Lien Note Claims based on the amounts of their Allowed Claims. 
           C. 
    Sources of Consideration for Plan Distributions. 
     Distributions under the Plan with respect to the TCEH Debtors shall be funded with, as applicable:  (1) Cash on hand at the TCEH Debtors; (2) the New Reorganized TCEH Debt and/or the Cash proceeds thereof; (3) the Cash proceeds of the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale or any sale of stock or securities pursuant to the Taxable Separation; (4) the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock; and (5) the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any).   
  The Reorganized EFH Debtors and the Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall fund distributions under the Plan, as applicable, with:  (1) Cash on hand at EFH Corp. and EFIH; (2) the Plan Sponsor Cash Amount (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not be reduced or increased pursuant to the PIK Settlement and for the avoidance of doubt shall be calculated in accordance with the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement); (3) the Reorganized EFH Common Stock, including such stock in the Makewhole Stock Reserve (which Reorganized EFH Common Stock shall convert into the right to receive NextEra Common Stock at the Merger Effective Time).  Distributions under the Plan with respect to the EFH Shared Services Debtors shall be funded with Cash on hand at the EFH Shared Services Debtors.  Each distribution and issuance referred to in Article VI of the Plan shall be governed by the terms and conditions set forth herein applicable to such distribution or issuance and by the terms and conditions of the instruments or other documents evidencing or relating to such distribution or issuance, which terms and conditions shall bind each Entity receiving such distribution or issuance.  The issuance of certain securities in connection with the Plan, including the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock and the Reorganized EFH Common Stock, will be exempt from SEC registration to the fullest extent permitted by law. 
  1.    Cash on Hand at the TCEH Debtors.  
  TCEH shall use Cash on hand at the TCEH Debtors to fund distributions to certain Holders of Claims against the TCEH Debtors in accordance with the Plan. 
  2.    New Reorganized TCEH Debt.  
  Before the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, OpCo shall enter into the New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents and incur the New Reorganized TCEH Debt,   provided, however  , that if the Taxable Separation is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, OpCo shall enter into the New 

85 

Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents and incur the New Reorganized TCEH Debt on the TCEH Effective Date.  Confirmation shall constitute approval of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents (including the transactions contemplated thereby, and all actions to be undertaken, undertakings to be made, and obligations to be incurred by Reorganized TCEH in connection therewith), and authorization for Reorganized TCEH to enter into and execute the Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents, subject to such modifications as Reorganized TCEH may deem to be reasonably necessary to consummate the Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents. 
  OpCo will distribute the Cash proceeds of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt (or, at the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors  election, all or a portion of such New Reorganized TCEH Debt to TCEH), and TCEH shall use such proceeds (or such New Reorganized TCEH Debt) to fund distributions to certain Holders of Claims against the TCEH Debtors in accordance with the Plan.   
  3.    Reorganized TCEH Common Stock. 
  Reorganized TCEH shall be authorized to issue 450,000,000 shares of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, subject to dilution only by the Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan.  Reorganized TCEH shall issue all securities, instruments, certificates, and other documents required to be issued for the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock in respect of Reorganized TCEH or its subsidiaries.  All of the shares of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock issued pursuant to the Plan shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, and non-assessable.  
  Certain Holders of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock shall be parties to the Reorganized TCEH Registration Rights Agreement. 
  4.    Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock. 
  If the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, the Reorganized TCEH     Debtors shall enter into the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale.  Under the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, the Preferred Stock Entity will be authorized to issue a certain number of shares of Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, the terms of which shall be consistent with the description of the preferred stock contained in the IRS Submissions previously filed by the Debtors (unless otherwise consented to by the Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed, or conditioned)).  The Preferred Stock Entity shall issue all securities, instruments, certificates, and other documents required to be issued for the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock in respect of Reorganized TCEH or its subsidiaries.  All of the shares of Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the Plan shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, and non-assessable. 
  Reorganized TCEH will distribute the Cash proceeds from the sale of the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock to TCEH prior to the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, and TCEH shall use such proceeds to fund distributions to certain Holders of Allowed Claims against the TCEH Debtors in accordance with the Plan. 
  5.    Reorganized EFH Common Stock. 
  On the EFH Effective Date, and in accordance with the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures, Reorganized EFH shall be authorized to issue the Reorganized EFH Common Stock, which (a) Reorganized EFH Class A Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive a number of shares of NextEra Class A Common Stock equal to the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment in accordance with the Merger Agreement and (b) Reorganized EFH Class B Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive a number of shares of NextEra Class B Common Stock equal to the NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment in accordance with the Merger Agreement. 
  Reorganized EFH shall issue all securities, instruments, certificates, and other documents required to be issued with respect to the Reorganized EFH Common Stock in respect of Reorganized EFH or its subsidiaries.  All of the shares of Reorganized EFH Common Stock issued pursuant to the Plan shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, and non-assessable. 

86 

6.    NextEra Common Stock. 
  On the EFH Effective Date, in accordance with the Merger Agreement, the Plan Sponsor shall make the NextEra Common Stock Investment and shall be authorized to issue the NextEra Class A Common Stock constituting the NextEra Class A Common Stock Investment and shall be authorized to issue the NextEra Class B Common Stock Investment constituting the NextEra Class B Common Stock;   provided, however  , that the NextEra Common Stock constituting the NextEra Common Stock Investment shall be issued directly by the Plan Sponsor to the Exchange Agent to the extent required by the Merger Agreement.  The Plan Sponsor shall issue all securities, instruments, certificates, and other documents required to be issued with respect to the NextEra Common Stock constituting the NextEra Common Stock Investment in respect of the Plan Sponsor or its subsidiaries.  All of the shares of NextEra Common Stock issued in connection with the Plan shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, and non-assessable.   
  7.    Cash on Hand at EFH Corp. and EFIH.  
  Reorganized EFH and Reorganized EFIH shall, through the Disbursing Agent, use Cash on hand at EFH Corp. and EFIH to fund distributions to certain Holders of Allowed Claims against the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors (including, for the avoidance of doubt, using all or a portion of the Cash on hand at EFIH to fund the EFIH Claims Reserve) in accordance with the Plan and the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures.  
  8.    Plan Sponsor Cash Amount.  
  The EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors shall use the Plan Sponsor Cash Amount to fund any initial distributions (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the EFIH Claims Reserve) in accordance with the Plan and the EFH Confirmation Order.  The EFH Plan Administrator Board shall use any remaining Plan Sponsor Cash Amount to fund the payment of certain fees and distributions to certain Holders of Claims against the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors in accordance with the Plan.  The Plan Sponsor Cash Amount shall not be reduced or increased pursuant to the PIK Settlement and for the avoidance of doubt shall be calculated in accordance with the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement. 
  9.    Cash on Hand at EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
  Any Cash on hand at the EFH Shared Services Debtors as of the TCEH Effective Date shall be used to fund distributions to Holders of Allowed Claims against the EFH Shared Services Debtors in accordance with the terms of the Plan.  Any Cash on hand at the EFH Shared Services Debtors that remains on hand after payment in full of all Allowed Claims against the EFH Shared Services Debtors pursuant to the Plan shall be transferred to Reorganized TCEH.  
           D. 
    Intercompany Account Settlement. 
     The Debtors and the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor, subject to the consent of the Plan Sponsor and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, as applicable (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), shall be entitled to transfer funds between and among themselves as they determine to be necessary or advisable to enable the Reorganized Debtors to satisfy their obligations under the Plan;   provided  ,   however  , that (1) the TCEH Debtors shall not transfer funds to a Debtor that is not a TCEH Debtor, and (2) the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors shall not transfer funds to a Debtor that is not an EFH Debtor or an EFIH Debtor, respectively, except as otherwise provided elsewhere in the Plan.  Except as set forth herein, any changes in intercompany account balances resulting from such transfers will be accounted for and settled in accordance with the Reorganized Debtors  historical intercompany account settlement practices and shall not violate the terms of the Plan. 

87 

E. 
    Competitive Tax Sharing Agreement. 
     On the TCEH Effective Date, the Competitive Tax Sharing Agreement shall automatically terminate as to the parties and all Claims and Causes of Action arising thereunder or in any way related thereto as to the parties shall be forever fully discharged, canceled, and released. 
           F. 
    Oncor Tax Sharing Agreement. 
     On the EFH Effective Date, the Oncor Tax Sharing Agreement will be assumed by Reorganized EFH, as such agreement may be amended or assigned in a manner agreed by Oncor, Reorganized EFH, and the Plan Sponsor. 
           G. 
    Corporate Existence. 
     Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, including as set forth in Article IV.B.11, each Debtor shall continue to exist after the Effective Date as a separate corporate Entity, limited liability company, partnership, or other form, as the case may be, with all the powers of a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or other form, as the case may be, pursuant to the applicable law in the jurisdiction in which each applicable Debtor is incorporated or formed and pursuant to the respective certificate of incorporation and by-laws (or other formation documents) in effect before the Effective Date, except to the extent such certificate of incorporation and by-laws (or other formation documents) are amended under the Plan or otherwise (consistent with the Merger Agreement, as applicable), and to the extent such documents are amended, such documents are deemed to be amended  pursuant to the Plan and require no further action or approval (other than any requisite filings required under applicable state or federal law).  The Reorganized TCEH Debtors will continue to fund the Nuclear Decommissioning Obligations in the ordinary course of business after the TCEH Effective Date. 
           H. 
    Vesting of Assets in the Reorganized Debtors. 
     Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, on the Effective Date, all property in each Estate, all Causes of Action, and any property acquired by any of the Debtors pursuant to the Plan shall vest in each applicable Reorganized Debtor or the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, free and clear of all Liens, Claims, charges, Interests, or other encumbrances.  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, on and after the Effective Date, each of the Reorganized Debtors may operate their business and may use, acquire, or dispose of property and compromise or settle any Claims, Interests, or Causes of Action without supervision or approval by the Bankruptcy Court and free of any restrictions of the Bankruptcy Code or Bankruptcy Rules. 
           I. 
    Cancelation of Existing Securities and Agreements. 
     Except as otherwise provided in the Plan (including Article III.B.19 and III.B.20), on and after the Effective Date, all notes, instruments, certificates, agreements, indentures, mortgages, security documents, and other documents evidencing Claims or Interests, including Other Secured Claims, TCEH First Lien Secured Claims, EFIH First Lien Note Claims, EFIH Second Lien Note Claims, EFCH 2037 Note Claims, TCEH Second Lien Note Claims, TCEH Unsecured Note Claims, PCRB Claims, EFIH Unsecured Note Claims, EFH Legacy Note Claims, EFH LBO Note Primary Claims, EFH LBO Note Guaranty Claims, EFH Unexchanged Note Claims, EFH Swap Claims, EFH Series N Note Claims, and DIP Claims, shall be deemed canceled, surrendered, and discharged without any need for further action or approval of the Bankruptcy Court or a Holder to take further action with respect to any note(s) or security and the obligations of the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, thereunder or in any way related thereto shall be deemed satisfied in full and discharged, and the Indenture Trustees, the TCEH First Lien Agent, and the DIP Agents shall be released from all duties thereunder;   provided, however  , that (a) Interests in Debtors EFIH, LSGT Gas Company, LLC, EECI, Inc., EEC Holding, Inc., and LSGT SACROC, Inc. shall be Reinstated; and (b) notwithstanding Confirmation or Consummation, any such indenture or agreement that governs the rights of the Holder of a Claim shall, subject to the terms of the Plan and EFIH Settlement Agreement, to the extent the EFIH Settlement Agreement has been approved, continue in effect solely for purposes of:   

88 

(1) allowing Holders of Allowed Claims to receive distributions under the Plan and, as to the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims, under the EFIH Settlement Agreement attached to the EFH Confirmation Order and the Plan; (2) allowing the Indenture Trustees or such other Disbursing Agent pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order, the TCEH First Lien Agent, and the Agent to make the distributions in accordance with the Plan (if any), as applicable, and, as to the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims under the EFIH Settlement Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B to the EFH Confirmation Order and the Plan; (3) preserving any rights of the DIP Agents, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the Indenture Trustees to payment of fees, expenses, and indemnification obligations as against any money or property distributable to the relevant Holders under the Plan as it relates to the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors, the EFIH First Lien DIP Agreement, including any rights to priority of payment and/or to exercise charging liens and, as to the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims, under the EFIH Settlement Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit B and the Plan; (4) allowing the Indenture Trustees, TCEH First Lien Agent, and DIP Agents to enforce any obligations owed to each of them under the Plan as it relates to the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors (including any Indenture Trustee s pursuit of, solely in the event the Court does not enter the Settlement Approval Order (as defined in Exhibit B to the EFH Confirmation Order), as to the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims, (x) the allowance and payment,  pursuant to the Plan and EFH Confirmation Order, of Makewhole Claims or any other Claims, and with respect to which the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors reserve all rights consistent with the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, and (y) the EFIH Intercreditor Litigation or any other pending proceeding; and (5) allowing the Indenture Trustees, TCEH First Lien Agent, and DIP Agents to appear in the Chapter 11 Cases or any proceeding in which they are or may become a party;   provided, further, however  , that, without prejudice to the right of any Holder of an Allowed Claim to the rights of such party to receive distributions under the Plan or the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the preceding proviso shall not affect the discharge of Claims or Interests pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, the Confirmation Order, or the Plan, or result in any expense or liability to the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors, as applicable.  For the avoidance of doubt, the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement, the TCEH Credit Agreement, and the TCEH First Lien Note Indenture remain in effect solely to the extent necessary to preserve the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes and the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute, and any (a) claims or Causes of Action by the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee, TCEH First Lien Agent, or Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims against other Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee arising in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes, or (b) claims or Causes of Action by any Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims against any other Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims (other than the TCEH First Lien Agent, except in the TCEH First Lien Agent s capacity as a nominal defendant to declaratory judgment claims in respect of which no monetary recovery is sought) in the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute (or any claims, Causes of Action or defenses of any other party to such dispute);   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that except as expressly set forth in the Plan, after the Effective Date, the Debtors and the Reorganized Debtors shall not be obligated to pay any fees or expenses under either the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement, the TCEH First Lien Note Indenture, or the TCEH Credit Agreement arising in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes or the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute, and all related Claims shall be released and discharged consistent with Article VIII.A of the Plan.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing provisions of this Article IV.I, (x) the cancelation and discharge of the EFIH First Lien Note Indentures, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, and the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement, and all other notes, instruments, certificates, agreements, mortgages, security documents, and other documents evidencing any Claims or rights under the EFIH First Lien Notes or the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall be limited solely to the Debtors and the Reorganized Debtors and shall not affect the rights of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee or Holders of the EFIH First Lien Note Claims vis- -vis any other party, including the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee and Holders of the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims, or vice versa; (y) for the avoidance of doubt, the EFIH First Lien Note Indentures, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement, and all other notes, instruments, certificates, agreements, mortgages, security documents, and other documents evidencing any Claims or rights under the EFIH First Lien Notes or the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall remain in effect (and the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee shall remain as trustee, and registrar) for the purposes set forth in (1)-(5) of this section, as applicable; and (z) the EFIH First Lien Note Indentures and the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement, and all other notes, instruments, certificates, agreements, mortgages, security documents, and other documents evidencing any Claim or rights under the EFIH First Lien Notes or the EFIH Second Lien Notes shall remain in place from and after the Effective Date, subject to entry of the Settlement Approval Order, for purposes of establishing the Claims against the EFIH Claims Reserve but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including Reorganized EFIH, associated with or under the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and 

89 

the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims (including the right of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and Holders of EFIH First Lien Notes and of the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee and Holders of EFIH Second Notes to seek and, if successful, receive interest at the contractual rates accruing on all of their Allowed Claims, including Additional Interest and interest on interest until those Claims are paid in full and to receive their fees, costs and indemnification), until all EFIH First Lien Note Claims and all EFIH Second Lien Note Claims have either been Allowed by Final Order and been paid in full, in Cash by the EFH Plan Administrator Board (with all applicable contractual interest), or have been disallowed by Final Order;   provided, however  , for the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing is intended solely to allow the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee and the Holders of the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and the Holders of the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims to assert Claims that they may be entitled to under the foregoing documentation (including the EFIH First Lien Notes Indentures, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Indenture, the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement, and the other foregoing notes, instruments, certificates, agreements, mortgages, security documents, and other documents, and except as provided otherwise in the EFIH Settlement Agreement and the Settlement Approval Order in the event such Order is entered, and nothing herein shall prejudice any party from arguing that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of the Plan, and the Bankruptcy Code, supersede the terms of such documentation for the purposes of determining what constitutes an Allowed Claim, including, without limitation, with respect to post-Effective Date interest and fee entitlements.  
           J. 
    Corporate Action. 
     On the Effective Date, as applicable, all actions contemplated under the Plan with respect to the applicable Debtor or Reorganized Debtor, as applicable, shall be deemed authorized and approved in all respects, including:  (1) implementation of the Restructuring Transactions, including execution of the Transaction Agreements and consummation of the Merger; (2) selection of the directors and officers for the Reorganized Debtors; (3) on the TCEH Effective Date, as applicable, adoption of, entry into, and assumption and/or assignment of the New Employee Agreements/Arrangements and the Employment Agreements; (4) adoption of the Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan; (5) incurrence of the New Reorganized TCEH Debt and distribution of such New Reorganized TCEH Debt or the net proceeds, if any; (6) issuance and distribution of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock; (7) implementation of the Taxable Separation (including any issuance of stock or securities thereunder); (8) (i) the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale (if any); (ii) issuance and distribution of the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity (if any); and (iii) issuance of the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock (if any) (9) issuance and distribution of the Reorganized EFH Common Stock (including its exchange for NextEra Common Stock); (10) issuance and distribution of the NextEra Common Stock pursuant to the Merger; (11) issuance and distribution of the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity; and (12) all other actions contemplated under the Plan (whether to occur before, on, or after the Effective Date).  All matters provided for herein involving the corporate structure of the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, and any corporate action required by the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have occurred and shall be in effect as of the Effective Date, without any requirement of further action by the Bankruptcy Court, the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, or their respective security holders, directors, managers, or officers.  On or before the Effective Date, the appropriate officers of the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors shall be authorized and, as applicable, directed to issue, execute, and deliver the agreements, documents, securities, and instruments, and take such actions, contemplated under the Plan (or necessary or desirable to effect the transactions contemplated under the Plan) in the name of and on behalf of the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, including the New Reorganized TCEH Debt Documents, the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity, the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, the Reorganized EFH Common Stock, the NextEra Common Stock, the Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any), the Spin-off TRA Rights (if any), and the Merger Agreement, as applicable, and any and all other agreements, documents, securities, and instruments relating to the foregoing, and all such documents shall be deemed ratified.  The authorizations and approvals contemplated by this Article IV.J shall be effective notwithstanding any requirements under non-bankruptcy law. 
           K. 
    New Organizational Documents. 
     The New Organizational Documents for Reorganized TCEH or any of its subsidiaries shall be consistent with the Tax Matters Agreement and in form and substance reasonably acceptable to TCEH and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors.   

90 

The New Organizational Documents for Merger Sub and Reorganized EFIH shall be consistent with the Tax Matters Agreement and in form and substance reasonably acceptable to EFH Corp. and the Plan Sponsor.   
  On the Effective Date, each of the Reorganized Debtors will file its New Organizational Documents with the applicable Secretaries of State and/or other applicable authorities in its respective state of incorporation or formation in accordance with the applicable laws of the respective state of incorporation or formation.  Pursuant to section 1123(a)(6) of the Bankruptcy Code, the New Organizational Documents will prohibit the issuance of non-voting equity securities.  After the Effective Date, the Reorganized Debtors may amend and restate their respective New Organizational Documents and other constituent documents as permitted by the laws of their respective state of incorporation and its respective New Organizational Documents. 
           L. 
    Directors and Officers of the Reorganized Debtors. 
     As of the Effective Date, the term of the current members of the board of directors of the applicable Debtors shall expire, and the initial boards of directors, including the New Boards, as applicable, and the officers of each of the Reorganized Debtors shall be appointed in accordance with the respective New Organizational Documents.  Pursuant to section 1129(a)(5) of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors will disclose in the Plan Supplement the identity and affiliations of any person proposed to serve on the initial board of directors or be an officer of each of the Reorganized Debtors.  To the extent any such director or officer of the Reorganized Debtors is an  insider  under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors also will disclose the nature of any compensation to be paid to such director or officer.  With respect to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, each such director and officer shall serve from and after the TCEH Effective Date pursuant to the terms of the New Organizational Documents, the New Employee Agreements/Arrangements, the Employment Agreements (assumed and assigned to Reorganized TCEH in accordance with the Plan and the Plan Supplement), and other constituent documents of the Reorganized TCEH Debtors and Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
   Pursuant to, and to the fullest extent permitted by, section 1146 of the Bankruptcy Code, any transfers of property pursuant to, in contemplation of, or in connection with, the Plan, including (1) the Restructuring Transactions; (2) the New Reorganized TCEH Debt; (3) the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock; (4) the Reorganized TCEH Preferred Stock (if any); (5) the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity (if any); (6) the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock (if any) (7) the Reorganized EFH Common Stock (including the exchange for NextEra Common Stock pursuant to and in accordance with the Merger Agreement); (8) the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity; (9) the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock; (10) the NextEra Common Stock issued in connection with the Plan Sponsor Investment; (11) the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any); (12) the Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any); (13) the assignment or surrender of any lease or sublease; and (14) the delivery of any deed or other instrument or transfer order, in furtherance of, or in connection with the Plan, including any deeds, bills of sale, or assignments executed in connection with any disposition or transfer of assets contemplated under the Plan, shall not be subject to any document recording tax, stamp tax, conveyance fee, intangibles or similar tax, mortgage tax, stamp act, real estate transfer, mortgage recording tax, or other similar tax, and upon entry of the Confirmation Order, the appropriate state or local governmental officials or agents shall forgo the collection of any such tax or governmental assessment and accept for filing and recordation any of the foregoing instruments or other documents without the payment of any such tax, recordation fee, or governmental assessment. 
           N. 
    Director, Officer, Manager, and Employee Liability Insurance. 
     1.    TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors Director, Officer, Manager, and Employee Liability Insurance. 
  On or before the Effective Date, the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, on behalf of the Reorganized TCEH Debtors and the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, respectively, will obtain sufficient liability insurance policy coverage for the six-year period following the Effective Date for the benefit of the TCEH Debtors  and EFH Shared Services Debtors  respective current and former directors, managers, officers, and employees on terms no less favorable to the directors, managers, officers, and employees than the TCEH Debtors  and EFH Shared Services Debtors  respective existing director, officer, manager, and employee coverage and with 

91 

an available aggregate limit of liability upon the Effective Date of no less than the aggregate limit of liability under the existing director, officer, manager, and employee coverage upon placement;   provided  ,   however  , that the costs of such policies shall be reasonably allocated among the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors in a manner reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors.  After the Effective Date, none of the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, or Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall terminate or otherwise reduce the coverage under any director, officer, manager, and employee insurance policies (including the  tail policy ) in effect on the Effective Date, with respect to conduct occurring prior thereto, and all officers, directors, managers, and employees of the TCEH Debtors or EFH Shared Services Debtors, as applicable, who served in such capacity at any time before the Effective Date shall be entitled to the full benefits of any such policy for the full term of such policy regardless of whether such officers, directors, managers, or employees remain in such positions after the Effective Date. 
  2.    EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors Director, Officer, Manager, and Employee Liability Insurance. 
  On or before the Effective Date, the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, on behalf of the Reorganized EFH Debtors and Reorganized EFIH, shall obtain liability insurance policy coverage for the benefit of the EFH Debtors  and EFIH Debtors  respective current and former directors, managers, officers, and employees in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, and shall thereafter maintain such insurance policy coverage to the extent provided by, and subject to the limitations of, the Merger Agreement. 
           O. 
    Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan. 
     The Reorganized TCEH Debtor Management Incentive Plan is hereby approved in its entirety and shall be implemented on the TCEH Effective Date by the applicable Reorganized Debtors without any further action by the Reorganized TCEH Board or the Bankruptcy Court. 
           P. 
       Employee Obligations. 
     Except (i) as otherwise provided in the Plan or the Plan Supplement and (ii) with respect to the EFH Non Qualified Benefit Plans, which shall be terminated on the TCEH Effective Date pursuant to the EFH Confirmation Order as obligations of the EFH Debtors (any Allowed Claims arising from the termination of such EFH Non-Qualified Benefits Plans shall be treated pursuant to Article III.B.8 of the Plan), the (x) Reorganized TCEH Debtors shall honor the Debtors  written contracts, agreements, policies, programs and plans for, among other things, compensation, reimbursement, indemnity, change of control, health care benefits, disability benefits, deferred compensation benefits, travel benefits, vacation and sick leave benefits, savings, severance benefits, retirement benefits, welfare benefits, relocation programs, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, including written contracts, agreements, policies, programs and plans for bonuses and other incentives or compensation for the directors, officers and employees of any of the Debtors who served in such capacity at any time (including the compensation programs approved by the Bankruptcy Court pursuant to the 2015 Compensation Order and the 2016 Compensation Order) and (y) except as may be expressly set forth in the Merger Agreement, none of the EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, the Reorganized EFIH Debtors, Oncor, the Plan Sponsor, or any Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor shall have any liability for the matters set forth in the foregoing clause (x).  Any of the above-listed contracts, agreements, policies, programs and plans that is an executory contract, pursuant to sections 365 and 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code, shall be deemed assumed as of the TCEH Effective Date and, to the extent that any EFIH Debtor or EFH Debtor is a party to such executory contract, assigned to the Reorganized TCEH Debtors. 
           Q. 
    Preservation of Causes of Action. 
     In accordance with section 1123(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, but subject to Article VIII of the Plan, the Reorganized Debtors and the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, consistent with the Plan and the Merger Agreement, shall retain and may enforce all rights to commence and pursue any and all Causes of Action belonging to their Estates, whether arising before or after the Petition Date, including any actions specifically enumerated in the Plan Supplement, and the EFH Plan Administrator Board s and Reorganized Debtors  rights to commence, prosecute, or settle such Causes of Action shall be preserved notwithstanding the occurrence of the applicable 

92 

Effective Date, other than:  (i) the Causes of Action released by the Debtors pursuant to the releases and exculpations contained in the Plan, including in Article VIII, which shall be deemed released and waived by the Debtors and Reorganized Debtors as of the Effective Date; (ii) all Causes of Action that arise under sections 544, 547, 548, and 549 of the Bankruptcy Code and state fraudulent conveyance law; and (iii) the Causes of Action released by the Debtors pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. 
  The Reorganized Debtors, the EFH Plan Administrator Board, and the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, as applicable, consistent with the Plan and the Merger Agreement, may pursue such Causes of Action, as appropriate, in accordance with the best interests of the Reorganized Debtors, subject, as further set forth herein, to the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee s approval with respect to the pursuit, litigation, and/or settlement of First Lien Makewhole Claims and Second Lien Makewhole Claims.    No Entity may rely on the absence of a specific reference in the Plan, the Plan Supplement, or the Disclosure Statement to any Cause of Action against it as any indication that the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, or the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, will not pursue any and all available Causes of Action against it.    Unless any Causes of Action against an Entity are expressly waived, relinquished, exculpated, released, compromised, or settled herein or in a Bankruptcy Court order, the Reorganized Debtors expressly reserve all Causes of Action, for later adjudication, and, therefore, no preclusion doctrine, including the doctrines of res judicata, collateral estoppel, issue preclusion, claim preclusion, estoppel (judicial, equitable, or otherwise), or laches, shall apply to such Causes of Action upon, after, or as a consequence of Confirmation or Consummation. 
  The Reorganized Debtors and the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, consistent with the Plan and the Merger Agreement, reserve and shall retain the Causes of Action notwithstanding the rejection of any Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease during the Chapter 11 Cases or pursuant to the Plan.  In accordance with section 1123(b)(3) of the Bankruptcy Code, any Causes of Action that a Debtor may hold against any Entity shall vest in the Reorganized Debtors and the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, consistent with the Plan and the Merger Agreement.  Subject to Article VII.K Plan with respect to the pursuit, litigation and/or settlement of the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, the EFH Plan Administrator Board, on behalf of the EFH and EFIH Debtors, shall have the exclusive right, authority, and discretion to determine and to initiate, file, prosecute, enforce, abandon, settle, compromise, release, withdraw, or litigate to judgment any such Causes of Action and to decline to do any of the foregoing without the consent or approval of any third party or further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court, unless such Cause of Action was otherwise transferred to the Reorganized Debtors pursuant to the Merger Agreement. 
           R. 
    Payment of Certain Fees. 
     1.    Payment of Fees of Certain Creditors of the EFIH Debtors. 
  Without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court, the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall pay from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account on the EFH Effective Date any reasonable and documented unpaid fees and expenses incurred on or before the EFH Effective Date by professionals payable under the Merger Agreement. 
  If, as of the EFH Effective Date, the Settlement Approval Order has been entered, and the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims Allowed pursuant to the Settlement Approval Order have been paid, in full, in Cash by the EFH Plan Administrator Board from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, then, on the EFH Effective Date, the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall pay, to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee, no less than the EFIH Base Payment Amount.  The payment of the EFIH Base Payment Amount shall not be subject to disgorgement, setoff, recoupment, reduction or reallocation of any kind and is without prejudice to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee s subsequent exercise of any charging lien.  The payment of the EFIH Base Payment Amount shall be considered a  charging lien advance  pursuant to Sections 6.12, 6.13 and 7.07 of the EFIH Unsecured Note Indentures. 
  If, as of the EFH Effective Date, the Settlement Approval Order has not been entered, then on the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be funded as set forth in the definition of EFIH Claims Reserve or the Settlement Approval Order.  Following entry of a Reserve Order modifying the EFIH Claims Reserve, the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall pay, to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee, no less than the EFIH Base Payment 

93 

Amount, to the extent, as applicable, authorized by the Reserve Order or Settlement Approval Order.  The payment of the EFIH Base Payment Amount shall not be subject to disgorgement, setoff, recoupment, reduction or reallocation of any kind and is without prejudice to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee s subsequent exercise of any charging lien.  The payment of the EFIH Base Payment Amount shall be considered a  charging lien advance  pursuant to Sections 6.12, 6.13 and 7.07 of the EFIH Unsecured Note Indentures. 
  The EFH Plan Administrator Board shall pay from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account (using EFH Cash in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, as described in subclause (c) of Exhibit C(3) of the Amended Plan Supplement), the reasonable and documented fees and expenses allowed under the EFH Notes Indentures;   provided  ,   however  , that such fees and expenses shall be subject to approval by the Fee Committee, with respect to the reasonableness of such documented fees and expenses in their reasonable discretion, and the Bankruptcy Court, such fees and expenses shall be paid on the EFH Effective Date or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter following Fee Committee and Bankruptcy Court approval thereof;   provided, further  , that, for the avoidance of doubt, such fees and expenses shall not be included in the amount of any Allowed Claims under the EFH Notes Indentures.  In addition, the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee shall have the right to seek payment of all or a portion of the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee Fees and Expenses from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account if any funds remain available after first funding the EFIH Claims Reserve in accordance with the Plan and any order of the Bankruptcy Court regarding the amount required to fund the EFIH Claims Reserve and Post-Effective Date Administrative Account and if there are sufficient amounts in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account to provide a 100% recovery to the Holders of Allowed EFIH Unsecured Note Claims, which fees and expenses application shall be subject to the review and approval procedures set forth in the EFH Plan Supplement.  
  Without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court, the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall pay from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account the reasonable and documented fees and expenses of the Auditor in conducting the Post-Closing Report and as otherwise provided in the Merger Agreement. 
  Except in the limited circumstance set forth above, all amounts distributed and paid pursuant to this Article IV.R.1. shall not be subject to disgorgement, setoff, recoupment, reduction, or reallocation of any kind. 
  2.    Payment of Fees of Certain Creditors of the TCEH Debtors. 
  Without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court, the Reorganized TCEH Debtors shall pay on the TCEH Effective Date any reasonable and documented unpaid fees and expenses incurred on or before the TCEH Effective Date by professionals (a) payable under (1) the TCEH DIP Order (which fees and expenses shall be paid by Reorganized TCEH), and (2) the Cash Collateral Order (which fees and expenses shall be paid by TCEH or Reorganized TCEH), including any applicable transaction, success, or similar fees for which the applicable Debtors have agreed to be obligated, and (b) retained by any individual member of the TCEH First Lien Ad Hoc Committee that is a TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditor.  Reorganized TCEH shall indemnify (a) the TCEH First Lien Agent for any reasonable and documented fees and expenses (including the reasonable and documented fees and expenses of its counsel and agents) incurred after the TCEH Effective Date solely in connection with the implementation of the Plan, including but not limited to, making distributions pursuant to and in accordance with the Plan, and any disputes arising in connection therewith; and (b) any member or members of the TCEH First Lien Ad Hoc Committee for any reasonable and documented fees and expenses (including the reasonable and documented fees and expenses of its counsel and agents) incurred after the TCEH Effective Date solely in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute. 
  All amounts distributed and paid pursuant to this Article IV.R.2 shall not be subject to disgorgement, setoff, recoupment, reduction, or reallocation of any kind. 
           S. 
    Treatment of Certain Claims of the PBGC and Pension Plan. 
     Nothing in the Chapter 11 Cases, the Disclosure Statement, the Plan, the Confirmation Order, or any other document filed in the Chapter 11 Cases shall be construed to discharge, release, limit, or relieve any individual from any claim by the PBGC or the Pension Plans for breach of any fiduciary duty under ERISA, including prohibited transactions, with respect to the Pension Plans, subject to any and all applicable rights and defenses of such parties, which are expressly preserved.  The PBGC and the Pension Plans shall not be enjoined or precluded from enforcing 
    
  94 

such fiduciary duty or related liability by any of the provisions of the Disclosure Statement, Plan, Confirmation Order, Bankruptcy Code, or other document filed in the Chapter 11 Cases.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Reorganized Debtors shall not be released from any liability or obligation under ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code, and any other applicable law relating to or arising from the Pension Plans. 
           T. 
    Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement. 
     If the Spin-Off is effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, at the election of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, on the TCEH Effective Date and before the Distribution, Reorganized TCEH shall enter into the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement, under which Reorganized TCEH shall agree to make payments in respect of its (or its subsidiaries ) specified tax items to or for the benefit of the TCEH First Lien Creditors (or their assigns).  In addition, and notwithstanding the foregoing, Reorganized TCEH may enter into one or more tax receivable agreements or other similar arrangements after the Distribution.  Only Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims that timely return a TRA Information Form shall be entitled to receive beneficial interests in the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any). Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims that fail to timely return a properly completed TRA Information Form shall not receive any beneficial interests in the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or any entitlement to any other distribution or consideration on account of or in connection with the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement. 
           U. 
    Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement. 
     If the Spin-Off is not effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2, at the election of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, on the TCEH Effective Date before the Distribution, Reorganized TCEH shall enter into the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement, under which Reorganized TCEH shall agree to make payments in respect of Reorganized TCEH s (or its subsidiaries ) specified tax items to or for the benefit of the TCEH First Lien Creditors (or their assigns).  In addition, and notwithstanding the foregoing, Reorganized TCEH (or one or more of its subsidiaries) may enter into one or more tax receivable agreements or other similar arrangements after the TCEH Effective Date.  Only Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims that timely return a properly completed TRA Information Form shall be entitled to receive beneficial interests in the Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any). Holders of Allowed TCEH First Lien Secured Claims that fail to timely return a TRA Information Form shall not receive any beneficial interests in the Taxable Separation TRA Rights (if any) or any entitlement to any other distribution or consideration on account of or in connection with the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement. 

ARTICLE V. 
  TREATMENT OF EXECUTORY CONTRACTS AND UNEXPIRED LEASES 
           A. 
    Assumption and Rejection of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
     1.    Rejection of EFH Debtor and EFIH Debtor Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases 
  On the EFH Effective Date, except as otherwise provided herein or in the Confirmation Order, all Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases of the EFH Debtors or the EFIH Debtors, not previously assumed or rejected pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, including the TCEH Confirmation Order or the EFH Confirmation Order, will be deemed to be Rejected Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases, in accordance with the provisions and requirements of sections 365 and 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code, other than those Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases that are: (1) identified on the EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List; (2) the subject of a motion to assume Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases that is pending on the Confirmation Date; or (3) subject to a motion to reject an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease pursuant to which the requested effective date of such rejection is after the Effective Date;   provided   that each of (1), (2) and (3) must be in form and substance acceptable to the Plan Sponsor.  Entry of the EFH Confirmation Order by the Bankruptcy Court shall constitute approval of such rejections and the assignments and/or assumptions of the Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases listed on the EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List pursuant to sections 365(a) and 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code.  Any motions to assume Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases of the EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors pending on the EFH Effective Date shall be subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court on or after the Effective Date by a Final Order.  Each Executory 

95 

Contract and Unexpired Lease assumed pursuant to this Article V.A.1 or by any order of the Bankruptcy Court, which has not been assigned to a third party before the Confirmation Date, shall revest in and be fully enforceable by Reorganized EFH or Reorganize EFIH, as applicable, or their successors in accordance with its terms, except as such terms are modified by the Plan or any order of the Bankruptcy Court authorizing and providing for its assumption under applicable federal law.  The Plan Sponsor, Reorganized EFH, and Reorganized EFIH, as applicable, reserve the right to alter, amend, modify, or supplement the EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List and the schedules of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases with respect to EFH, Reorganized EFH, EFIH, and Reorganized EFIH at any time through and including 45 days after the Effective Date, without incurrence of any penalty or changing the priority or security of any Claim as a result of such treatment change.  For the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, and the Separation Agreement, to the extent in the form attached to the Merger Agreement or as amended or modified in accordance with their respective terms and with the consent of the Plan Sponsor, shall be EFH/EFIH Assumed Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases. 
  2.    Assumption of TCEH Debtor Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
  On the TCEH Effective Date, except as otherwise provided herein, all TCEH Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases of the TCEH Debtors, not previously assumed or rejected pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, will be deemed to be TCEH Assumed Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases, in accordance with the provisions and requirements of sections 365 and 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code, other than those Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases that:  (1) previously were assumed or rejected by the Debtors; (2) are identified on the TCEH Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List; (3) are the subject of a motion to reject TCEH Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases that is pending on the Confirmation Date; or (4) are subject to a motion to reject a TCEH Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease pursuant to which the requested effective date of such rejection is after the Effective Date;   provided   that each of (2), (3) and (4) must be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors.  Entry of the Confirmation Order by the Bankruptcy Court shall constitute approval of such assignments and/or assumptions and the rejection of the Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases listed on the Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List pursuant to sections 365(a) and 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code.  Any motions to assume Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases pending on the Effective Date shall be subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court on or after the Effective Date by a Final Order.  Each Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease assumed pursuant to this Article V.A.2 or by any order of the Bankruptcy Court, which has not been assigned to a third party before the Confirmation Date, shall revest in and be fully enforceable by the Reorganized TCEH Debtors in accordance with its terms, except as such terms are modified by the Plan or any order of the Bankruptcy Court authorizing and providing for its assumption under applicable federal law.  Notwithstanding anything this Article V.A.2 to the contrary, the Employment Agreements, the New Employee Agreements/Arrangements, and the Executive Severance Policy shall be deemed to be entered into or assumed and/or assigned (as applicable) to Reorganized TCEH on the TCEH Effective Date, and Reorganized TCEH shall be responsible for any cure costs arising from or related to the assumption of such Employment Agreement or Executive Severance Policy;   provided   that, for the avoidance of doubt, in the event any party to an Employment Agreement and the Reorganized EFH Debtors or Reorganized EFIH Debtors mutually agree that such party s Employment Agreement shall be assumed by Reorganized EFH or Reorganized EFIH and not assigned to Reorganized TCEH, the consent of the Plan Sponsor shall be required with respect to such assumption and the Reorganized EFH Debtors and Reorganized EFIH Debtors, as applicable, shall be responsible for any cure costs arising from or related to the assumption of such Employment Agreements.  Additionally, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Plan Supplement, the Executive Severance Policy, or any Employment Agreement, the occurrence of the TCEH Effective Date shall be deemed to constitute a  change in control  under the Executive Severance Policy and each Employment Agreement.  On the TCEH Effective Date, Reorganized TCEH shall execute a written agreement (in a form reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors) with each employee who is party to an Employment Agreement acknowledging that the transactions consummated upon the occurrence of the TCEH Effective Date shall constitute a  change in control  under such employee s Employment Agreement.  The Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, with the reasonable consent of the Plan Sponsor and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, reserve the right to alter, amend, modify, or supplement the schedules of Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases with respect to such Debtors and Reorganized Debtors at any time through and including 45 days after the Effective Date, without incurrence of any penalty or changing the priority or security of any Claim as a result of such treatment change.  For the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Tax Matters Agreement, Transition Services 

96 

Agreement, Separation Agreement, and Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement shall be TCEH Assumed Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases. 
           B. 
    Claims Based on Rejection of Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases. 
     Unless otherwise provided by a Final Order of the Bankruptcy Court, all Proofs of Claim with respect to Claims arising from the rejection of Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases, pursuant to the Plan or Confirmation Order, if any, must be Filed within 30 days after the later of:  (1) the date of entry of an order of the Bankruptcy Court (including the Confirmation Order) approving such rejection; and (2) the effective date of such rejection.    Any Claims arising from the rejection of an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease not Filed within such time will be automatically disallowed, forever barred from assertion, and shall not be enforceable against the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, the Estates, or their property without the need for any objection by the Reorganized Debtors or further notice to, or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court or any other Entity, and any Claim arising out of the rejection of the Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease shall be deemed fully satisfied, released, and discharged, notwithstanding anything in the Schedules or a Proof of Claim to the contrary.    All Allowed Claims arising from the rejection of the Debtors  Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases shall be classified as General Unsecured Claims against the applicable Debtor and shall be treated in accordance with the Plan, unless a different security or priority is otherwise asserted in such Proof of Claim and Allowed in accordance with Article VII of the Plan. 
           C. 
    Cure of Defaults for Assumed Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
     Any monetary defaults under each Assumed Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease shall be satisfied, pursuant to section 365(b)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code, by payment of the default amount in Cash on the Effective Date (and, with respect to Assumed Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases of the EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors, by the EFH Debtors or the EFIH Debtors, as applicable, and, for the avoidance of doubt, not the Reorganized EFH Debtors or the Reorganized EFIH Debtors), subject to the limitation described below, or on such other terms as the parties to such Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases may otherwise agree.  In the event of a dispute regarding (1) the amount of any payments to cure such a default, (2) the ability of the Reorganized Debtors or any assignee to provide  adequate assurance of future performance  (within the meaning of section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code) under the Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease to be assumed, or (3) any other matter pertaining to assumption, the cure payments required by section 365(b)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code shall be made following the entry of a Final Order resolving the dispute and approving the assumption.  At least 14 days before the applicable Confirmation Hearing, the Debtors will provide for notices of proposed assumption and proposed cure amounts to be sent to applicable third parties and for procedures for objecting thereto and resolution of disputes by the Bankruptcy Court.  Any objection by a counterparty to an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease to a proposed assumption or related cure amount must be Filed, served, and actually received by the Debtors at least seven (7) days before the applicable Confirmation Hearing.  Any counterparty to an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease that fails to object timely to the proposed assumption or cure amount will be deemed to have consented to such assumption or proposed cure amount. 
  Assumption of any Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease shall result in the full release and satisfaction of any Claims or defaults, whether monetary or nonmonetary, including defaults of provisions restricting the change in control or ownership interest composition or other bankruptcy-related defaults, arising under any Assumed Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease at any time before the effective date of assumption.    Any Proofs of Claim Filed with respect to an Assumed Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease shall be deemed disallowed and expunged, without further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court. 
           D. 
    Preexisting Obligations to the Debtors under Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. 
     Rejection of any Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease pursuant to the Plan or otherwise shall not constitute a termination of preexisting obligations owed by the Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease counterparty or counterparties to the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, under such Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases. 

97 

E. 
    Indemnification Obligations. 
     1.    Indemnification Obligations of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, each Indemnification Obligation of any TCEH Debtor or EFH Shared Services Debtor shall be assumed by the applicable TCEH Debtor or EFH Shared Services Debtor, effective as of the Effective Date, pursuant to sections 365 and 1123 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise.  Each such Indemnification Obligation shall remain in full force and effect, shall not be modified, reduced, discharged, impaired, or otherwise affected in any way, and shall survive Unimpaired and unaffected, irrespective of when such obligation arose. 
  The TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH, EFH Shared Services Debtors, and Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall assume the Indemnification Obligations for the current and former directors, officers, managers, employees, and other professionals of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, as applicable, in their capacities as such;   provided   that the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH, EFH Shared Services Debtors, and Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall not assume, and shall not have any liability for or any obligations in respect of, any Indemnification Obligations for the current and former directors, officers, managers, employees, and other professionals of the EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors, in their capacities as such, and the EFH Debtors, Reorganized EFH, EFIH Debtors, and Reorganized EFIH shall not assume, and shall not have any liability for or any obligations in respect of, any Indemnification Obligations for the current and former directors, officers, managers, employees, and other professionals of the TCEH Debtors or the EFH Shared Services Debtors, in their capacities as such. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing shall impair the ability of the Reorganized TCEH Debtors and Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, as applicable, to modify indemnification obligations (whether in the bylaws, certificates or incorporate or formation, limited liability company agreements, other organizational or formation documents, board resolutions, indemnification agreements, employment contracts, or otherwise) for acts or omissions arising after the Effective Date.   
  2.    Indemnification Obligations of the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors. 
  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, from and after the Effective Date, each Indemnification Obligation of any EFH Debtor or EFIH Debtor shall be treated in accordance with Section 6.8 of the Merger Agreement. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing shall impair the ability of Reorganized EFH or Reorganized EFIH, as applicable, to modify indemnification obligations (whether in the bylaws, certificates or incorporate or formation, limited liability company agreements, other organizational or formation documents, board resolutions, indemnification agreements, employment contracts, or otherwise) for acts or omissions arising after the Effective Date.   
           F. 
    Insurance Policies. 
     Each of the Debtors  Insurance Policies are treated as Executory Contracts under the Plan.  Unless otherwise provided in the Plan, on the TCEH Effective Date, the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, as applicable, shall be deemed to have assumed all insurance policies and any agreements, documents, and instruments relating to coverage of all insured Claims, and such Insurance Policies shall not be impaired in any way by the Plan or the Confirmation Order, but rather will remain valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms. 
  Notwithstanding Article V.A.1 of the Plan, except to the extent that the Plan Sponsor elects, in its sole discretion, to list an Insurance Policy (or Insurance Policies) on the EFH/EFIH Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List, on the EFH Effective Date, the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, as applicable, shall be deemed to have assumed all insurance policies and any agreements, documents, and instruments relating to coverage of all insured Claims against the EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors, as applicable, and such Insurance Policies shall not 

98 

be impaired in any way by the Plan or the Confirmation Order, but rather will remain valid and enforceable against the Reorganized EFH Debtors or Reorganized EFIH Debtors, as applicable, in accordance with their terms. 
           G. 
    Modifications, Amendments, Supplements, Restatements, or Other Agreements. 
     Unless otherwise provided in the Plan, each Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease that is assumed shall include all modifications, amendments, supplements, or restatements, thereto or thereof, if any, including all easements, licenses, permits, rights, privileges, immunities, options, rights of first refusal, and any other interests, unless any of the foregoing agreements have been previously rejected or repudiated or is rejected or repudiated under the Plan. 
  Modifications, amendments, supplements, and restatements to prepetition Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases that have been executed by the Debtors during the Chapter 11 Cases shall not be deemed to alter the prepetition nature of the Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease, or the validity, priority, or amount of any Claims that may arise in connection therewith. 
           H. 
    Reservation of Rights. 
     Neither the exclusion nor inclusion of any Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease on the Rejected Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List or the Assumed Executory Contract and Unexpired Lease List, nor anything contained in the Plan, shall constitute an admission by the Debtors that any such contract or lease is in fact an Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease or that any of the Reorganized Debtors has any liability thereunder.  If there is a dispute regarding whether a contract or lease is or was executory or unexpired at the time of assumption or rejection, the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, shall have 30 days following entry of a Final Order resolving such dispute to alter its treatment of such contract or lease.  
           I. 
    Nonoccurrence of Effective Date. 
     In the event that the Effective Date does not occur with respect to a Debtor, the Bankruptcy Court shall retain jurisdiction with respect to any request to extend the deadline for assuming or rejecting Unexpired Leases with respect to such Debtor pursuant to section 365(d)(4) of the Bankruptcy Code, unless such deadline(s) have expired. 
           J. 
    Contracts and Leases Entered Into After the Petition Date. 
     Contracts and leases entered into after the Petition Date by any Debtor, including any Assumed Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases, will be performed by the applicable Debtor or the applicable Reorganized Debtor liable thereunder in the ordinary course of their business.  Accordingly, any such contracts and leases (including any Assumed Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases) that have not been rejected as of the date of the Confirmation Date shall survive and remain unaffected by entry of the Confirmation Order. 

ARTICLE VI. 
  PROVISIONS GOVERNING DISTRIBUTIONS 
           A. 
    Timing and Calculation of Amounts to Be Distributed. 
     Unless otherwise provided in the Plan (including pursuant to the Reorganized EFH Stock Issuance Procedures), on the Effective Date (or if a Claim or Interest is not an Allowed Claim or Allowed Interest on the Effective Date, on the date that such Claim or Interest becomes an Allowed Claim or Allowed Interest, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter), each Holder of an Allowed Claim or Allowed Interest shall receive the full amount of the distributions that the Plan provides for Allowed Claims and Allowed Interest in the applicable Class.  In the event that any payment or act under the Plan is required to be made or performed on a date that is not a Business Day, then the making of such payment or the performance of such act may be completed on the next succeeding Business Day, but shall be deemed to have been completed as of the required date.  If and to the extent that there are Disputed Claims or 

99 

Disputed Interests, distributions on account of any such Disputed Claims or Disputed Interests shall be made pursuant to the provisions set forth in Article VII of the Plan.  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan (including with respect to Claims, to the extent Allowed, based on or derived from the EFIH First Lien Notes and EFIH Second Lien Notes), Holders of Claims and Interests shall not be entitled to interest, dividends, or accruals on the distributions provided for in the Plan, regardless of whether such distributions are delivered on or at any time after the Effective Date.  For the avoidance of doubt, distributions to Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims shall be made in accordance with Article III.B.29 of the Plan, notwithstanding the pendency of the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute. 
  With respect to Holders of Class C5 Claims that are Allowed as of the TCEH Effective Date, the amount of the Effective Date distribution will be calculated as if each Disputed Class C5 Claim were an Allowed Class C5 Claim equal to the lesser of (a) the asserted amount of such Claim and (b) the amount estimated by the Bankruptcy Court in accordance with Article VII.C of the Plan.  On each Periodic Distribution Date, the Disbursing Agent shall make additional Pro Rata distributions to Holders of Allowed Class C5 Claims until such Claims have received the maximum recovery available to Holders of Class C5 Claims under the Plan. 
  Before the TCEH Effective Date, the TCEH Debtors shall create, in consultation with the TCEH Committee, a list of Disputed Class C5 Claims that shall be Allowed Class C5 Claims as of the TCEH Effective Date. Following the creation of such list, the TCEH Debtors shall, as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter submit, to the Bankruptcy Court an order, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Committee, allowing such Claims;   provided  ,   however  , that entry of such order shall not in any way impede, delay, or otherwise interfere with the occurrence of the TCEH Effective Date. 
  Holders of Allowed EFIH First Lien DIP Claims, and except as otherwise set forth in the Settlement Approval Order, as set forth in Article IV.B.9(c) and Article IV.B.9(f) Holders of Allowed Class B3 Claims, and Holders of Allowed Class B4 Claims, as applicable, shall receive distribution on account of such Claims on the EFH Effective Date or as soon as reasonably practicable after the EFH Effective Date, except with respect to (a) distributions on account of EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims that are Allowed by a Final Order after the EFH Effective Date (which Allowed Makewhole Claims, and solely to the extent Allowed by a Final Order, interest thereon, shall be paid in full, in Cash, from the EFIH Claims Reserve as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming Allowed); (b) distributions on account of Claims Allowed under Article III.B.19(b)(iii) and Article III.B.20(b)(iii) (which shall be paid in full in Cash from the EFIH Claims Reserve as soon as reasonably practicable following (i) completion of the fee review process set forth in the Plan Supplement or (ii) on any other order of the Bankruptcy Court,   provided  , that any such Claims allowed pursuant to the fee review process to be determined pursuant to the Reserve Order, if any, or any such order of the Bankruptcy Court before the EFH Effective Date will be paid on the EFH Effective Date or as soon as reasonably practicable after the EFH Effective Date; and (c) any other distributions made on account of Class B3 Claims and Class B4 Claims Allowed after the EFH Effective Date (which Allowed Class B3 Claims and Allowed Class B4 Claims shall be paid in full, in Cash, from the EFIH Claims Reserve or the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, as applicable, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming Allowed).  Except as otherwise set forth in the Settlement Approval Order or any Reserve Order, to the extent the unpaid principal and interest (including Additional Interest and interest on interest) for the EFIH Second Lien Notes are not paid on the EFH Effective Date to the Disbursing Agent with respect to the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims or the Holders of Allowed EFIH Second Lien Note Claims directly, in each case as authorized by the EFIH Confirmation Order, then Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes have the right to assert that interest will continue to accrue post-Effective Date interest on such unpaid amounts, which shall be paid by the EFH Plan Administrator Board, in full, in Cash, from the EFIH Claims Reserve. Except as otherwise set forth in the Settlement Approval Order or any Reserve Order, to the extent the unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and interest on interest) for the EFIH First Lien Notes are not paid on the EFH Effective Date, then Holders of EFIH First Lien Notes have the right to assert that interest shall continue to accrue interest on such unpaid amounts, which shall be paid by the EFH Plan Administrator Board, in full, in Cash from the EFIH Claims Reserve. 
  If the EFIH Settlement Approval Order is entered as of or on the EFH Effective Date, and after payment in full, in Cash, is made to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee pursuant to the terms of the EFIH Settlement Approval Order, Holders of Allowed Class B5 and Allowed Class B6 Claims may receive a distribution on the EFH Effective Date from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account.  If the EFIH Settlement Approval Order is not entered as of the EFH Effective Date, if: (i) the relief requested in the EFIH Settlement Motion is denied, any funds remaining in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account after funding the EFIH Claims 

100 

Reserve, the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, and the MLOC Account pursuant to the Reserve Order, may be distributed to the Holders of Allowed Class B5 and Allowed Class B6 Claims or (ii) the EFH Settlement Approval Order is subsequently entered, and after payment in full, in Cash, made to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee pursuant to the terms of the EFIH Settlement Approval Order, Holders of Allowed Class B5 and Allowed Class B6 Claims may receive a distribution thereafter from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account.  The actual size of the distribution to be issued on the EFH Effective Date or such later date, as applicable, cannot be determined with finality at this time.  Regardless of whether the EFIH Settlement Approval Order is entered as of or on the EFH Effective Date, the size of the distribution is dependent on, among other factors, (a) the amount required under the any Reserve Order to fund the EFIH Claims Reserve, Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, and the MLOC Account and whether the Makewhole Claims asserted by Holders of EFIH First Lien Note Claims or EFIH Second Lien Note Claims are Allowed by Final Order or disallowed by Final Order, (b) the payment of all Professional Fee Claims from the EFIH Professional Fee Escrow Account and any amounts remaining in such accounts have been refunded to the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, (c) the payment of the reasonable and documented fees and expenses allowed under the EFIH Unsecured Notes Indenture (which fees and expenses, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not be included in the amount of any Allowed Claims under the EFIH Unsecured Notes Indenture), (d) the conclusion of the Post-Closing Audit according to the terms of the Merger Agreement and the payments to or from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account based on the results of the Post-Closing Audit, and (e) ensuring sufficient reserves are in place to fund (1) General Administrative Claims Against the EFIH Debtors, and Priority Tax Claims Against the EFIH Debtors, (2) ensuring sufficient reserves are in place to fund post-EFH Effective Date Professional Fee Claims and reasonable and documented post-EFH Effective Date fees and expenses that are allowed under the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien 2017 Note Indenture, the EFIH First Lien 2020 Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, or the EFIH Second Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Note Indenture, and/or any related agreement, (including as may be escrowed in the EFIH Claims Reserve as set forth herein), and (3) the costs of winding down the EFIH Debtors.  The EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors provided additional disclosures regarding their good-faith and non-binding estimates of amounts set forth in subclauses (b), (c), and (e) in the Plan Supplement. 
  Except as set forth in this Article VI.A, in Article IV.B.9(b)-9(c), and in Article IV.B.9(f) of the Plan, no distributions shall otherwise be made to Holders of Claims against the EFH Debtors or the EFIH Debtors, until the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors have made determinations with respect to factors (a)-(e) in the above paragraph of this Article VI.A. 
  Except as otherwise set forth in the Settlement Approval Order, to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, any Makewhole Claim or other Claim based on or derived from the EFIH First Lien Notes or EFIH Second Lien Notes (and interest thereon, including Additional Interest and interest on interest, to the extent allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a Final Order, whether entered before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date) shall be paid in full, in Cash, from the EFIH Claims Reserve (and, if and to the extent the EFIH Claims Reserve proves insufficient to pay any such Claim, including all interest thereon, to the extent Allowed by Final Order, in full, from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account on the terms set forth in the Reserve Order, but in all cases and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Settlement Approval Order, excluding  (a) any account comprising the value of Cash on hand at EFH Corp. as of the EFH Effective Date; and (b) the Makewhole Stock Reserve;   provided  ,   however  , that the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall not use funds held in the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account (if any) or the MLOC Account (if any) to pay such Allowed Claims except as authorized by the Reserve Order;   provided  ,   however  , that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph, but subject to and except as provided otherwise in the EFH Confirmation Order and any Reserve Order nothing shall prevent Plan distributions from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account (excluding the EFIH Claims Reserve, the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, if any, and the MLOC Account, if any) to Holders of Allowed Class B5 and Class B6 Claims on the EFH Effective Date or such other interim distribution date, in each case as permitted by the Settlement Approval Order (subject to Article VI.A. hereof), the Reserve Order, or the Subsequent Reserve Order, if any. 
  Any Makewhole Claim against an EFH Debtor or an EFIH Debtor that is not based on or derived from the EFIH First Lien Notes or EFIH Second Lien Notes that becomes Allowed, whether before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date, shall receive treatment set forth in its respective class set forth in Article III.B of the Plan.  For the avoidance of doubt, except as otherwise set forth in the Settlement Approval Order, nothing in the foregoing shall 

101 

limit or affect the allowance of any Makewhole Claims based on or derived from the EFIH First Lien Notes or EFIH Second Lien Notes in accordance with the other terms of this Plan, including Article III.B.19 and Article III.B.20, and the limitations on liability set forth in the next paragraph shall not apply to the EFIH Claims Reserve established on the EFH Effective Date, as may be modified following entry of, and in accordance with, the terms of the Reserve Order (with respect to which all parties  rights are reserved to be heard at the Reserve. Hearing).   
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Merger Agreement, related agreements, or otherwise (including any provision anywhere that also include the words  notwithstanding anything to the contrary  or any similar reference) none of (i) the Plan Sponsor; (ii) Merger Sub; (iii) the EFH Debtors; (iv) the Reorganized EFH Debtors; (v) EFIH; (vi) Reorganized EFIH; (vii) any other entity acquired, directly or indirectly, by the Plan Sponsor pursuant to the terms of, or as a result of, the Plan, the Merger Agreement, or any related agreement, or (viii) with respect to each of the foregoing Entities in clauses (i) through (vii), such Entity and its current and former Affiliates, and such Entities  and their current and former Affiliates  current and former directors, managers, officers, equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), predecessors, successors, and assigns, subsidiaries, and each of their respective current and former equity holders, officers, directors, managers, principals, members, employees, agents, advisory board members, financial advisors, partners, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such, shall have or incur any liability whatsoever in connection with or as a result of any Makewhole Claim being Allowed.  Nothing in this paragraph impairs, modifies, or otherwise affects the ability of Holders of Allowed Claims to receive distributions pursuant to the Plan and the EFH Confirmation Order on account of such Allowed Claims. 
  Under no circumstances can the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, Holders of EFIH First Lien Note Claims, or Holders of EFIH Second Lien Note Claims access the value of Cash on hand at EFH Corp. as of the EFH Effective Date, or the Makewhole Stock Reserve.   
           B. 
    Rights and Powers of EFH Plan Administrator Board. 
     The EFH Plan Administrator Board shall be authorized to direct the Disbursing Agent to make distributions from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account to Holders of Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests against the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors on the EFH Effective Date, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, in accordance with the Plan and to exercise such other powers as may be vested in the EFH Plan Administrator Board by order of the Bankruptcy Court,  pursuant to the Plan, or as deemed by the EFH Plan Administrator Board to be necessary and proper to implement the provisions of the Plan. The EFH Plan Administrator Board shall not be required to give any bond or surety or other security for the performance of its duties unless otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court.  
  The EFH Plan Administrator Board may, but is not required to, establish governance and organizational documents before or after the EFH Effective Date (but to the extent such governance and organizational documents are established before the EFH Effective Date, they will be filed with the Bankruptcy Court); provided that such governance and organizational document shall be provided to the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee.  Any Holder of a Claim or Interest seeking to compel the EFH Plan Administrator Board to make distributions from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account or manage any reserves shall seek relief from the Bankruptcy Court in accordance with the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, the Local Bankruptcy Rules for the District of Delaware, and any other applicable rules or procedures.  The EFH Plan Administrator Board or its professionals on behalf of the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall keep an accounting of distributions made from, and funds contributed to, the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account that sets forth whether such distributions or contributions, as applicable, were made for the benefit of the EFH Debtors or their creditors, on the one hand, or the EFIH Debtors on the other hand.  Such accounting will be shared with the professionals for the Holders of Claims and Interests Against the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, including the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee and the advisors to the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee, on a professionals  eyes only basis (except as otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court). 
           C. 
    Disbursing Agent. 
     All distributions under the Plan shall be made to Holders of Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests by the Disbursing Agent (including at the direction of the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable) on the applicable 
    
  102 

Effective Date, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, in accordance with the Plan.  The Disbursing Agent shall not be required to give any bond or surety or other security for the performance of its duties unless otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court. 
           D. 
    Rights and Powers of Disbursing Agent. 
     1.    Powers of the Disbursing Agent. 
  The Disbursing Agent shall be empowered to:  (a) effect all actions and execute all agreements, instruments, and other documents necessary to perform its duties under the Plan; (b) make all distributions contemplated hereby, including making distributions from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account at the direction of the EFH Plan Administrator Board; (c) employ professionals to represent it with respect to its responsibilities; and (d) exercise such other powers as may be vested in the Disbursing Agent by order of the Bankruptcy Court, pursuant to the Plan, or as deemed by the Disbursing Agent to be necessary and proper to implement the provisions of the Plan. 
  2.    Expenses Incurred On or After the Effective Date. 
  Except as otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court, the amount of any reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Disbursing Agent in performing its duties under the Plan on or after the Effective Date (including taxes) and any reasonable compensation and expense reimbursement claims (including reasonable attorney fees and expenses) made by the Disbursing Agent shall be paid in Cash by the Reorganized Debtors.  Reorganized TCEH and the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall only be obligated to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Disbursing Agent for distributions related to Claims against the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors, and the Reorganized EFH Debtors and Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall only be obligated to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Disbursing Agent for distributions related to Claims against the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors. 
           E. 
    Delivery of Distributions and Undeliverable or Unclaimed Distributions. 
     1.    Record Date for Distribution. 
  On the Distribution Record Date, the Claims Register shall be closed and any party responsible for making distributions shall be authorized and entitled to recognize only those record Holders listed on the Claims Register as of the close of business on the Distribution Record Date.  The record Holder for the TCEH Credit Agreement Claims solely for purposes of the Distribution Record Date shall be the TCEH First Lien Administrative Agent. 
  2.    Delivery of Distributions in General. 
  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Reorganized Debtors shall make distributions to Holders of Allowed Claims and Allowed Interests as of the Distribution Record Date at the address for each such Holder as indicated on the Debtors  records as of the date of any such distribution;   provided  ,   however  , that the Distribution Record Date shall not apply to publicly-traded Securities.  The manner of such distributions shall be determined at the discretion of the Reorganized Debtors, and the address for each Holder of an Allowed Claim or Allowed Interest shall be deemed to be the address set forth in any Proof of Claim or Interest Filed by that Holder. 
  3.    Delivery of Distributions on DIP Claims. 
  All distributions on account of DIP Claims shall be made to the applicable DIP Agent, who shall be deemed to be the Holder of such DIP Claims, as applicable, for purposes of distributions to be made hereunder.  As soon as practicable following compliance with the requirements set forth in this Article VI, the applicable DIP Agent shall arrange to deliver or direct the delivery of such distributions to or on behalf of the Holders of DIP Claims in accordance with the terms of the DIP Facilities, as applicable, subject to any modifications to such distributions in accordance with the terms of the Plan;   provided, however  , that the DIP Agents shall retain all rights as administrative agents under the DIP Facilities in connection with the delivery of distributions to DIP Lenders. 

103 

The DIP Agents shall not have any liability to any person with respect to distributions made or directed to be made by the DIP Agents. 
    
  4.    Delivery of Distributions on TCEH First Lien Claims. 
  To the extent that the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order provides that any of the TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions are Collateral (as that term is used in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement) or proceeds of Collateral (as that term is used in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement), then such distributions shall be made to the TCEH First Lien Collateral Agent for further distribution to the Secured Debt Representatives (as defined in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement) pursuant to and in accordance with the Plan and the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order, and the Secured Debt Representatives (as defined in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement) shall in turn make such distributions to the Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims pursuant to and in accordance with the Plan and the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order.  To the extent that the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order provides that any of the TCEH First Lien Creditor Distributions are not Collateral (as that term is used in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement) or proceeds of Collateral (as that term is used in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement), then such distributions shall be made to the Secured Debt Representatives (as defined in the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement) for further distribution directly to the Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims pursuant to and in accordance with the Plan.  If the TCEH First Lien Creditor Plan Distribution Allocation Order has not been entered as of the TCEH Effective Date, a reserve will be established in the manner described in Article III.B.29.  For the avoidance of doubt, distributions to Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims shall be made in accordance with Article III.B.29 of the Plan, notwithstanding the pendency of the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute.    THE TCEH FIRST LIEN AGENT AND THE TCEH FIRST LIEN NOTES TRUSTEE SHALL NOT HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO ANY PERSON WITH RESPECT TO DISTRIBUTIONS MADE OR DIRECTED TO BE MADE BY SUCH TCEH FIRST LIEN AGENT OR TCEH FIRST LIEN NOTES TRUSTEE PURSUANT TO AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PLAN  . 
    
  5.    No Fractional Distributions. 
  No fractional shares of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, Reorganized EFH Common Stock, or NextEra Common Stock shall be distributed and no Cash shall be distributed in lieu of such fractional amounts, except, solely with respect to distributions to Holders of Allowed Claims against EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, as provided in the Merger Agreement.  When any distribution pursuant to the Plan on account of an applicable Allowed Claim would otherwise result in the issuance of a number of shares of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock or Reorganized EFH Common Stock, that is not a whole number, the actual distribution of shares of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock or Reorganized EFH Common Stock shall be rounded as follows:  (a) fractions of one half ( ) or greater shall be rounded to the next higher whole number and (b) fractions of less than one-half ( ) shall be rounded to the next lower whole number with no further payment therefor.  The total number of authorized shares of Reorganized TCEH Common Stock or Reorganized EFH Common Stock to be distributed to Holders of Allowed Claims shall be adjusted as necessary to account for the foregoing rounding.   
  6.    Minimum Distribution. 
  No Cash payment of less than $50.00 shall be made to a Holder of an Allowed Claim on account of such Allowed Claim. 
  7.    Undeliverable Distributions and Unclaimed Property. 
  In the event that any distribution to any Holder is returned as undeliverable, no distribution to such Holder shall be made unless and until the Disbursing Agent has determined the then-current address of such Holder, at which time such distribution shall be made to such Holder without interest;   provided  ,   however  , that such distributions shall be deemed unclaimed property under section 347(b) of the Bankruptcy Code at the expiration of one year from the applicable Distribution Date.  After such date, all unclaimed property or interests in property shall revert to the applicable Reorganized Debtor(s) automatically and without need for a further order by the Bankruptcy Court (notwithstanding any applicable federal or state escheat, abandoned, or unclaimed property laws to the contrary), and the claim of any Holder to such property shall be fully discharged, released, and forever barred. 

104 

8.    Delivery of Distributions on PCRB Claims. 
  All distributions on account of PCRB Claims are subject to the PCRB Trustee s charging lien and priority of payment rights.  Accordingly, before the distribution of any Cash to Holders of Allowed PCRB Claims pursuant to Article III.B.30 of the Plan, the Disbursing Agent will distribute (solely from the distribution of Cash to Holders of Allowed PCRB Claims as set forth in Article III.B.30 of the Plan) to the PCRB Trustee the amount of Cash that is necessary to pay in full (in accordance with the amount provided by the PCRB Trustee in a written notice to the Disbursing Agent) (a) the fees and expenses of the PCRB Trustee (including professional and other advisory fees and expenses) that are not otherwise paid under the Plan and (b)  any reserve for fees and expenses as requested by the PCRB Trustee (including any reserve required in the event of an appeal relating to the PCRB Trustee s fees and expenses otherwise payable under this Plan).  The Disbursing Agent shall distribute Pro Rata the remainder of the Cash that is distributable on account of the PCRB Claims pursuant to Article III.B.30 of the Plan to the Holders of the PCRB Claims pursuant to the Plan.  The Disbursing Agent also shall distribute Pro Rata to the Holders of the PCRB Claims any unused portion of any reserve required by the PCRB Trustee upon the PCRB s release of such reserve to the Disbursing Agent. 
           F. 
    Manner of Payment. 
     Unless as otherwise set forth herein, all distributions of Cash, the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, and the Reorganized EFH Common Stock to the Holders of Allowed Claims under the Plan shall be made by the Disbursing Agent on behalf of the Reorganized Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, and Merger Sub.  At the option of the Disbursing Agent, any Cash payment to be made under the Plan may be made by check or wire transfer or as otherwise required or provided in applicable agreements.  All Cash distributions to be made hereunder to the DIP Agents on account of the DIP Claims shall be made by wire transfer. 
           G. 
    SEC Registration/Exemption. 
     Each of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, New Reorganized TCEH Debt, Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, Reorganized EFH Common Stock, and NextEra Common Stock, Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any), and Taxable TRA Rights (if any) are or may be  securities,  as defined in Section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act, section 101 of the Bankruptcy Code, and applicable state securities laws.   
  Pursuant to section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code, the issuance of (1) the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock and (2) the Reorganized EFH Common Stock are exempt from, among other things, the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act and any other applicable U.S. state or local law requiring registration before the offering, issuance, distribution, or sale of such securities.  Each of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock and the Reorganized EFH Common Stock (a) is not a  restricted security  as defined in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, and (b) is freely tradable and transferable by any initial recipient thereof that (i) at the time of transfer, is not an  affiliate  of the Reorganized TCEH, Reorganized EFH, Reorganized EFIH, the Plan Sponsor, or Merger Sub, as the case may be, as defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act and has not been such an  affiliate  within 90 days of such transfer, and (ii) is not an entity that is an  underwriter  as defined in subsection (b) of section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code.   
  The NextEra Common Stock issued in exchange for Reorganized EFH Common Stock may be issued without registration under the Securities Act in reliance upon the exemption set forth in section 1145(a)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code for the offer or sale under a chapter 11 plan of a security of a successor to the debtor if such securities are offered or sold in exchange for a claim against, or an interest in, such debtor.  The EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, with the support of the Plan Sponsor, will seek to obtain a ruling from the Bankruptcy Court in the Confirmation Order that the section 1145(a)(1) exemption applies to the NextEra Common Stock. 
  The New Reorganized TCEH Debt, the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, and the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or Taxable TRA Rights (if any) will be issued without registration under the Securities Act in reliance on the exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act provided by section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act (and/or Regulation D promulgated thereunder) and Regulation S under the Securities Act and each will be  restricted securities  subject to resale restrictions and may be resold, exchanged, assigned or otherwise transferred only pursuant to registration, or an applicable exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, 

105 

registration under the Securities Act and other applicable law. The Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or Taxable TRA Rights (if any) will only be issued to (i)  qualified institutional buyers  (as defined in Rule 144A of the Securities Act), (ii)  accredited investors  (as defined in Rule 501(a) of the Securities Act) and (iii) non-U.S. persons (as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act) who are acquiring the Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or Taxable TRA Rights (if any) in an offshore transaction in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act, in each case who deliver a valid and completed TRA Information Form. The Spin-Off TRA Rights (if any) or Taxable TRA Rights (if any) will be subject to additional transfer restrictions set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreement. 
  Should the Reorganized Debtors elect on or after the Effective Date to reflect any ownership of any of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, New Reorganized TCEH Debt, Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, Reorganized EFH Common Stock, and NextEra Common Stock through the facilities of the DTC, the Reorganized Debtors need not provide any further evidence other than the Plan or the Confirmation Order with respect to the treatment of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, New Reorganized TCEH Debt, Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, Reorganized EFH Common Stock, and NextEra Common Stock under applicable securities laws. 
  The DTC shall be required to accept and conclusively rely upon the Plan and Confirmation Order in lieu of a legal opinion regarding whether any of the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, New Reorganized TCEH Debt, Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, Reorganized EFH Common Stock, and NextEra Common Stock, as applicable, are exempt from registration and/or eligible for DTC book-entry delivery, settlement, and depository services. 
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, no entity (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the DTC) may require a legal opinion regarding the validity of any transaction contemplated by the Plan, including, for the avoidance of doubt, whether the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, New Reorganized TCEH Debt, Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, Reorganized EFH Common Stock, and NextEra Common Stock are exempt from registration and/or eligible for DTC book-entry delivery, settlement, and depository services. 
           H. 
    Compliance with Tax Requirements. 
     In connection with the Plan, the applicable Reorganized Debtor(s) shall comply with all tax withholding and reporting requirements imposed on them by any Governmental Unit with respect to distributions pursuant to the Plan.  Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Reorganized Debtors and the Disbursing Agent, as applicable, shall be authorized to take all actions necessary to comply with such withholding and reporting requirements, including liquidating a portion of the distribution to be made under the Plan to generate sufficient funds to pay applicable withholding taxes, withholding distributions pending receipt of information necessary to facilitate such distributions, and establishing any other mechanisms they believe are reasonable and appropriate to comply with such requirements.  The Reorganized Debtors reserve the right to allocate all distributions made under the Plan in compliance with all applicable wage garnishments, alimony, child support, and other spousal awards, liens, and encumbrances. 
           I. 
    No Postpetition or Default Interest on Claims. 
     Unless otherwise specifically provided for in the Plan or the Confirmation Order, and notwithstanding any documents that govern the Debtors  prepetition funded indebtedness to the contrary, (1) postpetition and/or default interest shall not accrue or be paid on any Claims and (2) no Holder of a Claim shall be entitled to:  (a) interest accruing on or after the Petition Date on any such Claim; or (b) interest at the contract default rate, as applicable. 
           J. 
    Setoffs and Recoupment. 
     The Debtors and Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, may, but shall not be required to, setoff against or recoup any payments or distributions to be made pursuant to the Plan in respect of any Claims of any nature whatsoever that the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors may have against the claimant, but neither the failure to do so nor the allowance of any Claim hereunder shall constitute a waiver or release by the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors of any such claim it may have against the Holder of such Claim. 

106 

K. 
    No Double Payment of Claims. 
     To the extent that a Claim is Allowed against more than one Debtor s Estate, there shall be only a single recovery on account of that Allowed Claim, but the Holder of an Allowed Claim against more than one Debtor may recover distributions from all co-obligor Debtors  Estates until the Holder has received payment in full on the Allowed Claims.  No Holder of an Allowed Claim shall be entitled to receive more than payment in full of its Allowed Claim, and each Claim shall be administered and treated in the manner provided by the Plan only until payment in full on that Allowed Claim. 
           L. 
    Claims Paid or Payable by Third Parties. 
     1.    Claims Paid by Third Parties. 
  The Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, shall reduce a Claim, and such Claim shall be disallowed without a Claims objection having to be Filed and without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court, to the extent that the Holder of such Claim receives payment on account of such Claim from a party that is not a Debtor or a Reorganized Debtor (other than the Disbursing Agent).  Subject to the last sentence of this paragraph, to the extent a Holder of a Claim receives a distribution on account of such Claim and receives payment from a party that is not a Debtor or a Reorganized Debtor on account of such Claim, such Holder shall, within 14 days of receipt thereof, repay or return the distribution to the applicable Reorganized Debtor, to the extent the Holder s total recovery on account of such Claim from the third party and under the Plan exceeds the amount of such Claim as of the date of any such distribution under the Plan.  The failure of such Holder to timely repay or return such distribution shall result in the Holder owing the applicable Reorganized Debtor annualized interest at the Federal Judgment Rate on such amount owed for each Business Day after the 14-day period specified above until the amount is repaid. 
  2.    Claims Payable by Third Parties. 
  No distributions under the Plan shall be made on account of an Allowed Claim that is payable pursuant to one of the Debtors  insurance policies until the Holder of such Allowed Claim has exhausted all remedies with respect to such insurance policy.  To the extent that one or more of the Debtors  insurers agrees to satisfy in full or in part a Claim (if and to the extent adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction), then immediately upon such insurers  agreement, the applicable portion of such Claim may be expunged without a Claims objection having to be Filed and without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court. 
  3.    Applicability of Insurance Policies. 
  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, distributions to Holders of Allowed Claims shall be in accordance with the provisions of any applicable insurance policy.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute or be deemed a waiver of any Cause of Action that the Debtors or any Entity may hold against any other Entity, including insurers under any policies of insurance, nor shall anything contained herein (a) constitute or be deemed a waiver by such insurers of any rights or defenses, including coverage defenses, held by such insurers, or (b) establish, determine, or otherwise imply any liability or obligation, including any coverage obligation, of any insurer. 

ARTICLE VII. 
  PROCEDURES FOR RESOLVING CONTINGENT,  
  UNLIQUIDATED, AND DISPUTED CLAIMS 
           A. 
    Allowance of Claims. 
     Except as otherwise set forth in the Plan, after the Effective Date, each of the Reorganized Debtors shall have and retain any and all rights and defenses such Debtor had with respect to any Claim immediately before the Effective Date.  This Article VII of the Plan shall not apply to the DIP Claims, TCEH First Lien Claims, TCEH Second Lien Note Claims, or TCEH Unsecured Note Claims, which Claims shall be Allowed in full and shall not be 
    
  107 

subject to any avoidance, reductions, set off, offset, recharacterization, subordination (whether equitable, contractual, or otherwise), counterclaims, cross-claims, defenses, disallowance, impairment, objection, or any other challenges under any applicable law or regulation by any person or entity. 
  Except as specifically provided as Allowed Claims pursuant to Article III.B of the Plan or otherwise objected to by the Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases, the Plan shall serve as the Debtors  objection to all other EFH LBO Note Claims, and EFH Legacy Note Claims under the respective indentures.  If the Bankruptcy Court sustains the Debtors  objection to these Claims, the Confirmation Order shall disallow such Claims.  The Holders of such Claims may respond to the Debtors  objection to such Claims by filing an objection to the Plan.  For the avoidance of doubt, any proceedings to determine the allowance of post-Effective Date interest, Future Interest Claims, and Trustee Indemnification Claims and any other EFIH First Lien Note Claims or EFIH Second Lien Notes Claims will be adjudicated by separate proceedings post-Confirmation and shall not be adjudicated or disallowed by the Plan or the EFH Confirmation Order.  
           B. 
    Claims Administration Responsibilities. 
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan, after the Effective Date, the applicable Reorganized Debtor(s) or the EFH Plan Administrator Board, as applicable, shall have the sole authority:  (1) to File, withdraw, or litigate to judgment, objections to Claims; (2) to settle or compromise any Disputed Claim without any further notice to or action, order, or approval by the Bankruptcy Court; and (3) to administer and adjust the Claims Register to reflect any such settlements or compromises without any further notice to or action, order, or approval by the Bankruptcy Court;   provided, however  , as further set forth in Article VII.K of the Plan, with respect to the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, the EFH Plan Administrator Board and/or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee (and not the Reorganized Debtors) shall have the sole authority to take the actions set forth in (1)-(3) hereof.. 
  Except with respect to Claims and Causes of Action released by the Debtors pursuant to the releases and exculpations contained in the Plan, including in Article VIII, if one or more Entities have sought and obtained standing to prosecute a Cause of Action on behalf of one or more of the Debtors  Estates and such Entities are prosecuting such Causes of Actions as of the Effective Date, then such Entities will have the sole authority, solely with respect to such Causes of Action, to File, withdraw, litigate to judgment, settle, compromise, or take any other actions in respect of such Causes of Action. 
           C. 
    Estimation of Claims  . 
     Before or after the Effective Date, the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, with the consent of the Plan Sponsor with respect to any Disputed Claim against any EFH Debtor or any EFIH Debtor, may (but are not required to) at any time request that the Bankruptcy Court estimate any Disputed Claim that is contingent or unliquidated pursuant to section 502(c) of the Bankruptcy Code for any reason, regardless of whether any party previously has objected to such Claim or whether the Bankruptcy Court has ruled on any such objection, and the Bankruptcy Court shall retain jurisdiction to estimate any such Claim, including during the litigation of any objection to any Claim or during the appeal relating to such objection.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Plan, a Claim that has been expunged from the Claims Register, but that either is subject to appeal or has not been the subject of a Final Order, shall be deemed to be estimated at zero dollars, unless otherwise ordered by the Bankruptcy Court.  In the event that the Bankruptcy Court estimates any contingent or unliquidated Claim, that estimated amount shall constitute a maximum limitation on such Claim for all purposes under the Plan (including for purposes of distributions), and the relevant Reorganized Debtor may elect to pursue any supplemental proceedings to object to any ultimate distribution on such Claim.   
  If the TCEH Debtors determine, in their reasonable discretion and in consultation with the TCEH Committee, that (1) one or more Disputed Class C5 Claims are capable of estimation by the Bankruptcy Court, (2) estimation will materially improve TCEH Effective Date distributions to Holders of Allowed Class C5 Claims, and (3) estimation is otherwise in the best interests of the Estates, the TCEH Debtors shall file one or more motions to estimate such Disputed Class C5 Claims, which motion or motions shall be filed and noticed to be heard (on regular notice to all parties in interest) by the Bankruptcy Court before the TCEH Effective Date (or such other date as determined by the Bankruptcy Court). 

108 

D. 
    Adjustment to Claims without Objection. 
     Any Claim that has been paid or satisfied, or any Claim that has been amended or superseded, may be adjusted or expunged on the Claims Register by the Reorganized Debtors without a Claims objection having to be Filed and without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court. 
           E. 
    Time to File Objections to Claims or Interests. 
     Any objections to Claims or Interests shall be Filed on or before the Claims Objection Deadline. 
           F. 
    Disallowance of Claims. 
     Any Claims held by Entities from which the Bankruptcy Court has determined that property is recoverable under section 542, 543, 550, or 553 of the Bankruptcy Code or that is a transferee of a transfer that the Bankruptcy Court has determined is avoidable under section 522(f), 522(h), 544, 545, 547, 548, 549, or 724(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, shall be deemed disallowed pursuant to section 502(d) of the Bankruptcy Code, and Holders of such Claims may not receive any distributions on account of such Claims until such time as such Causes of Action against that Entity have been settled or a Bankruptcy Court order with respect thereto has been entered and the full amount of such obligation to the Debtors has been paid or turned over in full.  All Proofs of Claim Filed on account of an Indemnification Obligation shall be deemed satisfied and expunged from the Claims Register as of the Effective Date to the extent such Indemnification Obligation is assumed (or honored or reaffirmed, as the case may be) pursuant to the Plan, without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court.  All Proofs of Claim Filed on account of an employee benefit shall be deemed satisfied and expunged from the Claims Register as of the Effective Date to the extent the Reorganized Entities elect to honor such employee benefit, without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court. 
  Except as provided herein or otherwise agreed, any and all Proofs of Claim Filed after the Bar Date shall be deemed disallowed and expunged as of the Effective Date without any further notice to or action, order, or approval of the Bankruptcy Court, and Holders of such Claims may not receive any distributions on account of such Claims, unless on or before the Confirmation Hearing such late Claim has been deemed timely Filed by a Final Order. 
           G. 
    Amendments to Proofs of Claim. 
     On or after the Effective Date, a Proof of Claim or Interest may not be Filed or amended without the prior authorization of the Bankruptcy Court or the Reorganized Debtors, and any such new or amended Proof of Claim or Interest Filed shall be deemed disallowed in full and expunged without any further action. 
           H. 
    Reimbursement or Contribution. 
     If the Bankruptcy Court disallows a Claim for reimbursement or contribution of an Entity pursuant to section 502(e)(1)(B) of the Bankruptcy Code, then to the extent that such Claim is contingent as of the time of allowance or disallowance, such Claim shall be forever disallowed and expunged notwithstanding section 502(j) of the Bankruptcy Code, unless before the Confirmation Date:  (1) such Claim has been adjudicated as non contingent; or (2) the relevant Holder of a Claim has Filed a non-contingent Proof of Claim on account of such Claim and a Final Order has been entered before the Confirmation Date determining such Claim as no longer contingent. 
           I. 
    No Distributions Pending Allowance. 
     Except as otherwise set forth herein, if an objection to a Claim or portion thereof is Filed as set forth in Article VII.A and VII.B of the Plan, no payment or distribution provided under the Plan shall be made on account of such Disputed Claim or portion thereof unless and until such Disputed Claim becomes an Allowed Claim. 

109 

J. 
    Distributions After Allowance. 
     To the extent that a Disputed Claim ultimately becomes an Allowed Claim, distributions (if any) shall be made to the Holder of such Allowed Claim in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.  Except as otherwise set forth in the Plan (including Article III.B.19 and Article III.B.20), as soon as practicable after the date that the order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court allowing any Disputed Claim becomes a Final Order, the Disbursing Agent shall provide to the Holder of such Claim the distribution (if any) to which such Holder is entitled under the Plan as of the Effective Date, less any previous distribution (if any) that was made on account of the undisputed portion of such Claim, without any interest, dividends, or accruals to be paid on account of such Claim unless required under such order or judgment of the Bankruptcy Court. 
           K. 
    Preservation of Makewhole Appellate Rights and Litigation of Makewhole Claims. 
     1.    Rights and Powers of Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee. 
  Except as provided otherwise in the Settlement Approval Order and the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall be appointed as of the EFH Confirmation Date to oversee the litigation and/or settlement of the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims on behalf of the EFIH Debtors and the EFH Plan Administrator Board.  
  Except as provided otherwise in the Settlement Approval Order and the EFIH Settlement Agreement, nothing herein shall prevent the EFH Plan Administrator Board, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee from seeking entry of an order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following the entry of the Reserve Order. 
  The Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall have the right to retain its own professionals, including counsel, in its sole and absolute discretion.  The reasonable and documented fees and expenses of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, including professional fees, shall be paid first from the MLOC Account, which account shall be established prior to, and be senior to, any disbursements to Holders of Allowed Class B5 and Allowed Class B6 Claims and which account shall be funded only after funding (a) the EFIH Claims Reserve in accordance with the Plan and any Reserve Order regarding the amount required to fund the EFIH Claims Reserve and (b) the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account in accordance with the terms of the Plan. If the EFIH Claims Reserve proves to be insufficient to pay all Allowed EFIH First Lien Note Claims and/or the EFIH Second Lien Note Claims (including all interest thereon) in full, any payment of any fees and expenses of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall, subject to the disgorgement process set forth below, be subject to disgorgement upon entry of a Final Order to satisfy such Allowed Claims in full;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that no Cash on hand at EFH Corp. as of the EFH Effective Date shall be used to satisfy such reasonable and documented fees and expenses of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee.   
  For the avoidance of doubt, to the extent that the Plan allows the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, or any of the Holders thereof to seek the disgorgement of funds distributed to Holders of Allowed Class B5 Claims or Allowed Class B6 Claims and/or the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and such Holders shall seek to exercise such remedies first against the funds distributed to Holders of Allowed Class B5 Claims and Allowed B6 Claims (if any) and then second, only as necessary, against funds distributed to the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee. 
  The Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee fees and expenses will be evaluated and satisfied as set forth in the EFH Confirmation Order and shall be evaluated and satisfied substantially in the manner set forth in the Amended Plan Supplement. 
  2.    Powers of EFIH Debtors in Conjunction with the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee. 
  Except as otherwise provided in the Settlement Approval Order, prior to the EFH Effective Date, the EFIH Debtors, shall pursue (or not pursue, as the case may be), in consultation with the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, all remedies for the litigation of, and/or objections to, the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH 

110 

Second Lien Makewhole Claims and (a) will obtain the consent of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee with respect to any settlement of the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims prior to the EFH Effective Date with such consent (i) to be in the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee s sole discretion if any settlement is at or above 50% of any EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date) or 50% of the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date) and (ii) not to be unreasonably withheld if any settlement is below 50% of the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date) or 50% of the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date), and (b) shall cease prosecution of objections to the EFIH First Lien and Second Lien Makewhole Claims if directed by the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee and upon five business days  prior notice to counsel for the EFH Notes Trustee and Fidelity.  Unless otherwise agreed to by each of the Unconflicted Initial Supporting Creditors, any decision of the Pre-Effective Date Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall be by consent of those holding a majority of the total amount of EFIH Unsecured Notes held by the Unconflicted Initial Supporting Creditors. 
  The benefit of any settlement of the First Lien Makewhole Claims and/or Second Lien Makewhole Claims approved by the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee or, prior to the Confirmation Date, by the Initial Supporting Creditors, shall be distributed   ratably   among all Holders of Allowed Class B5 Claims and Allowed Class B6 Claims pursuant to the terms of the Alternative E-Side Plan until such time such Holders have received a 100% recovery on account of their respective Allowed Claims  For the avoidance of doubt, neither the Initial Supporting Creditors nor the members of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, as applicable, shall receive any consideration in excess of their Pro Rata     share as holders of EFIH Unsecured Notes. 
  For the avoidance of doubt, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall consult with the EFIH Debtors and its advisors regarding such litigation of, objections to, and/or settlement of, the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims. 
  3.    Powers of EFH Plan Administrator Board in Conjunction with Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee. 
  Except as otherwise provided in the Settlement Approval Order, after the EFH Effective Date, the EFH Plan Administrator Board will take all actions necessary (or refrain from taking all actions necessary, as applicable), and solely as directed by the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, to pursue all remedies for litigation of, and objections to, the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims;   provided  ,   however  , that the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall periodically consult with the EFH Plan Administrator Board and its advisors (to be selected by the EFH Plan Administrator Board in its sole discretion) regarding the litigation of the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims.   
  The Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee will have the right to consult with the EFH Plan Administrator Board regarding any change to, or whether there should be a change to, counsel of record for the EFH/EFIH Debtors (and their successors) in the litigation of EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, including any appeals related to such makewhole litigation. 
    
  The EFH Plan Administrator Board shall obtain the consent of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee with respect to any settlement of the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, with such consent (a) to be in the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee s sole discretion if any settlement is at or above 50% of any EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date) or 50% of the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date) and (b) not to be unreasonably withheld if any settlement is below 50% of the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date) or 50% of the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims (as calculated as of the EFH Effective Date);   provided  ,   however  , notice of any such settlement shall filed on the Bankruptcy Court docket.   
  Except as otherwise provided in the Settlement Approval Order, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee shall have an independent right to litigate and settle the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and/or the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, which shall not be subject to the consent of 

111 

the EFH Plan Administrator Board;   provided  ,   however  , notice of any such settlement shall be filed on the Bankruptcy Court docket. 
  The fees and expenses incurred by (i) the EFIH Debtors and the EFH Plan Administrator Board, except as otherwise provided in the Settlement Approval Order, and (ii) the fees and expenses incurred by the Plan Sponsor (up to $200,000 as set forth in the definition of Post-Effective Date Administrative Account), arising from or related to litigation with respect to the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and/or the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims shall be paid from the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, which shall be established on the EFH Effective Date.  If the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account is insufficient to satisfy such fees and expenses, the EFIH Debtors, Reorganized EFIH Debtors, and the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall be authorized to deduct such fees and expenses from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account (but excluding the EFIH Claims Reserve).  For the avoidance of doubt, the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall be authorized to deduct amounts from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account, to the extent required to satisfy any Allowed General Administrative Claims, Priority Claims, or wind-down obligations;   provided  ,   however  , that the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall not be permitted to deduct amounts from the EFIH Claims Reserve to satisfy shortfalls in the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account, and shall not be permitted to deduct amounts from the Post-Effective Date Administrative Account to satisfy shortfalls in the EFIH Claims Reserve without entry of a further Final Order by a court of competent jurisdiction.  For any and all actions taken by the Plan Sponsor at the express written request of the EFH Plan Administrator Board arising from or related to any and all litigation, proceedings, and settlements relating to the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims and the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, the EFH Plan Administrator Board shall reimburse the Plan Sponsor from the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account for the reasonable and documented fees and out-of-pocket expenses in excess of $200,000. 

ARTICLE VIII. 
  SETTLEMENT, RELEASE, INJUNCTION, AND RELATED PROVISIONS 
           A. 
    Discharge of Claims and Termination of Interests. 
     Pursuant to section 1141(d) of the Bankruptcy Code, and except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan or in any contract, instrument, or other agreement or document created pursuant to the Plan, the distributions, rights, and treatment that are provided in the Plan shall be in complete satisfaction, discharge, and release, effective as of the Effective Date, of Claims (including any Intercompany Claims resolved or compromised after the Effective Date by the Reorganized Debtors), Interests, and Causes of Action of any nature whatsoever, including any interest accrued on Claims or Interests from and after the Petition Date, whether known or unknown, against, liabilities of, Liens on, obligations of, rights against, and Interests in, the Debtors or any of their assets or properties, regardless of whether any property shall have been distributed or retained pursuant to the Plan on account of such Claims and Interests, including demands, liabilities, and Causes of Action that arose before the Effective Date, any liability (including withdrawal liability) to the extent such Claims or Interests relate to services performed by employees of the Debtors before the Effective Date and that arise from a termination of employment, any contingent or non contingent liability on account of representations or warranties issued on or before the Effective Date, and all debts of the kind specified in sections 502(g), 502(h), or 502(i) of the Bankruptcy Code, in each case whether or not:  (1) a Proof of Claim based upon such debt or right is Filed or deemed Filed pursuant to section 501 of the Bankruptcy Code; (2) a Claim or Interest based upon such debt, right, or Interest is Allowed pursuant to section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code; or (3) the Holder of such a Claim or Interest has accepted the Plan.  Any default or  event of default  by the Debtors or Affiliates with respect to any Claim or Interest that existed immediately before or on account of the Filing of the Chapter 11 Cases shall be deemed cured (and no longer continuing) as of the Effective Date.  The Confirmation Order shall be a judicial determination of the discharge of all Claims and Interests subject to the Effective Date occurring. 
           B. 
    Release of Liens. 
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan as it relates to the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors, on the EFH Effective Date and except for Other Secured Claims that the Debtors elect to Reinstate in accordance with Article III.B.1 (subject to the consent of the Plan Sponsor), III.B.17 (subject to the consent of the Plan Sponsor), III.B.27, or III.B.37 of the Plan (and, with respect to any Allowed Other Secured Claims Against the TCEH Debtors asserted by the Taxing Units or the Texas Comptroller which the TCEH Debtors 

112 

shall Reinstate on the TCEH Effective Date until such Allowed Other Secured Claims are satisfied in the full Allowed amount, and with respect to any Allowed Other Secured Claim Against the EFH Debtors asserted by the Taxing Units which the EFH Debtors shall Reinstate on the EFH Effective Date until such Allowed Other Secured Claims are satisfied in the full Allowed amount), all mortgages, deeds of trust, Liens, pledges, or other security interests against any property of the Estates shall be fully released and discharged, and all of the right, title, and interest of any Holder of such mortgages, deeds of trust, Liens, pledges, or other security interests shall revert to the Reorganized Debtors and their successors and assigns, in each case, without any further approval or order of the Bankruptcy Court and without any action or Filing being required to be made by the Debtors.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Liens on the collateral securing the EFIH First Lien Note Claims and EFIH Second Lien Note Claims, as applicable, will be released on the EFH Effective Date;   provided  ,   however  , that the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee will be granted Liens on the EFIH Claims Reserve, as described in Article III.B.19 and Article III.B.20 or as otherwise set forth in the Reserve Order, or in the alternative, the Settlement Approval Order, as applicable;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that such Liens on the EFIH Claims Reserve shall be released at such time when all Claims based upon or under the EFIH First Lien Notes (including for the avoidance of doubt, any Claims based upon or under the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement) and all Claims based upon or under the EFIH Second Lien Notes have either been (1) Allowed (whether before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date) and paid in full (to the extent Allowed), including all interest (to the extent Allowed), in Cash; (2) disallowed by Final Order; or (3) paid in full, in Cash to the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee or EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, as applicable, pursuant to the Settlement Approval Order;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that upon release of such Liens on the EFIH Claims Reserve set forth in this sentence, the funds of the EFIH Claims Reserve shall revert to the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that except as provided in the EFH Confirmation Order and any Reserve Order, nothing herein shall prevent the EFH Plan Administrator Board, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following the entry of the Reserve Order.  For the avoidance of doubt, solely for purposes of determining whether any such Claims are Secured Claims entitled to treatment as Class B3 or Class B4 Claims (rather than Unsecured Claims entitled to treatment as Class B6 Claims), the secured status of such Claims shall be determined as if such Liens had not been released on the EFH Effective Date and remained in effect to the same extent they did immediately before the EFH Effective Date  .     
           C. 
    Releases by the Debtors. 
     In addition to any release provided in the Settlement Order, pursuant to section 1123(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, for good and valuable consideration, on and after the Effective Date, each Released Party is deemed released and discharged by the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, and their Estates from any and all Claims and Causes of Action, including Claims and Causes of Action identified, claimed, or released in the Standing Motions, the Litigation Letters, or the Disinterested Directors Settlement, as well as all other Claims and Causes of Action, whether known or unknown, including any derivative claims, asserted on behalf of the Debtors, that the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, or their Estates would have been legally entitled to assert in their own right (whether individually or collectively) or on behalf of the Holder of any Claim or Interest, based on or relating to, or in any manner arising from, in whole or in part, the Debtors (including the management, ownership or operation thereof), the Debtors  in- or out-of-court restructuring efforts, intercompany transactions (including dividends paid), transactions pursuant and/or related to the Master Separation Agreement dated December 12, 2001, the TCEH Credit Agreement, the TCEH First Lien Notes, the Cash Collateral Order (and any payments or transfers in connection therewith), the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement, the Liability Management Program, the Tax Sharing Agreements, the 2007 Acquisition, the Management Agreement, the 2009 amendment to the TCEH Credit Agreement, the 2011 Amend and Extend Transactions, the 2005 Oncor Transfer, the 2013 Revolver Extension, the Luminant Makewhole Settlement, the Tax and Interest Makewhole Agreements, the TCEH Intercompany Notes, the Shared Services, any preference or avoidance claim pursuant to sections 544, 547, 548, and 549 of the Bankruptcy Code, the formulation, preparation, dissemination, negotiation, or Filing of the Terminated Restructuring Support Agreement, the Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement, the EFIH First Lien Principal Settlement, the Original Confirmed Plan, or any 

113 

Restructuring Transaction, contract, instrument, release, or other agreement or document (including providing any legal opinion requested by any Entity regarding any transaction, contract, instrument, document, or other agreement contemplated by the Plan or the reliance by any Released Party on the Plan or the Confirmation Order in lieu of such legal opinion) created or entered into in connection with the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the PIK Settlement and any direction taken by the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee in connection therewith, the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement, the Terminated Restructuring Support Agreement, the Disclosure Statement(s), the Plan, the Transaction Agreements, the DIP Facilities, the Chapter 11 Cases, the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the pursuit of Confirmation, the pursuit of Consummation, the administration and implementation of the Plan, including the issuance or distribution of Securities      pursuant to the Plan, or the distribution of property under the Plan, the Transaction Agreements, or any other related agreement, or upon any other act or omission, transaction, agreement, event, or other occurrence taking place on or before the Effective Date related or relating to the foregoing.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the releases set forth above do not release any post-Effective Date obligations of any party or Entity under the Plan, any Restructuring Transaction, or any document, instrument, or agreement (including those set forth in the Plan Supplement) executed to implement the Plan.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, and for the avoidance of doubt, the TCEH Settlement Claim shall be treated, released, and discharged on the EFH Effective Date.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the claims and Causes of Action set forth in Section 6.12 of the Parent Disclosure Letter delivered in connection with the Merger Agreement shall not be released;   provided, however  , that such Claims and Causes of Action shall be subject to treatment pursuant to the Plan and shall be discharged as set forth in Article VIII.A hereof.  For the avoidance of doubt, (i) the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, and Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall provide the release set forth in this Article VIII.C as of the TCEH Effective Date; and (ii) the EFH Debtors, Reorganized EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, and Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall provide the release set forth in this Article VIII.C as of the EFH Effective Date;   provided   that any and all Intercompany Claims (other than the TCEH Settlement Claim) held by or held against the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, or any non-Debtor Affiliate to be transferred to the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, including EFH Properties, shall be released as of the TCEH Effective Date. 
           D. 
    Releases by Holders of Claims and Interests. 
     Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, as of the Effective Date, each Releasing Party is deemed to have released and discharged each Debtor, Reorganized Debtor, and Released Party from any and all Claims and Causes of Action, including Claims and Causes of Action identified, claimed, or released in the Standing Motions, the Litigation Letters, or the Disinterested Directors Settlement, as well as all other Claims and Causes of Action, whether known or unknown, including any derivative claims, asserted on behalf of the Debtors, that such Entity would have been legally entitled to assert (whether individually or collectively), based on or relating to, or in any manner arising from, in whole or in part, the Debtors (including the management, ownership or operation thereof), the Debtors  in- or out-of-court restructuring efforts, intercompany transactions (including dividends paid), transactions pursuant and/or related to the Master Separation Agreement dated December 12, 2001, the TCEH Credit Agreement, the TCEH First Lien Notes, the Cash Collateral Order (and any payments or transfers in connection therewith), the TCEH First Lien Intercreditor Agreement, the Liability Management Program, the Tax Sharing Agreements, the 2007 Acquisition, the Management Agreement, the 2009 amendment to the TCEH Credit Agreement, the 2011 Amend and Extend Transactions, the 2005 Oncor Transfer, the 2013 Revolver Extension, the Luminant Makewhole Settlement, the Tax and Interest Makewhole Agreements, the TCEH Intercompany Notes, the Shared Services, any preference or avoidance claim pursuant to sections 544, 547, 548, and 549 of the Bankruptcy Code, the formulation, preparation, dissemination, negotiation, or Filing of the Terminated Restructuring Support Agreement, the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement, the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the EFIH First Lien Principal Settlement, the Original Confirmed Plan, or any Restructuring Transaction, contract, instrument, release, or other agreement or document (including providing any legal opinion requested by any Entity regarding any transaction, contract, instrument, document, or other agreement contemplated by the Plan or the reliance by any Released Party on the Plan or 

114 

the Confirmation Order in lieu of such legal opinion) created or entered into in connection with the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Support Agreement, the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement, the PIK Settlement and any direction taken by the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee in connection therewith the Terminated Restructuring Support Agreement, the Disclosure Statement(s), the Plan, the Transaction Agreements, the DIP Facilities, the Chapter 11 Cases, the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the pursuit of Confirmation, the pursuit of Consummation, the administration and implementation of the Plan, including the issuance or distribution of Securities pursuant to the Plan, or the distribution of property under the Plan, the Transaction Agreements, or any other related agreement, or upon any other act or omission, transaction, agreement, event, or other occurrence taking place on or before the Effective Date related or relating to the foregoing.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the releases set forth above do not release (i) any claims or Causes of Action by the Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee against one or more Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee arising from or in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes, (ii) any post-Effective Date obligations of any party or Entity under the Plan, (iii) any Restructuring Transaction, (iv) any document, instrument, or agreement (including those set forth in the Plan Supplement) executed to implement the Plan, (v) claims or Causes of Action asserted by any Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims against one or more Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims (other than the TCEH First Lien Agent, except in the TCEH First Lien Agent s capacity as a nominal defendant to declaratory judgment claims in respect of which no monetary recovery is sought) solely with respect to the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute, or (vi) the claims and Causes of Action set forth in Section 6.12 of the Parent Disclosure Letter delivered in connection with the Merger Agreement shall not be released;   provided, however  , that such Claims and Causes of Action set forth in Section 6.12 of the Parent Disclosure Letter delivered in connection with the Merger Agreement shall be subject to treatment pursuant to the Plan and shall be discharged as set forth in Article VIII.A hereof.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the releases set forth above do not release any claims or Causes of Action against one or more of NextEra and its current and former subsidiaries (the    Plan Sponsor Released Parties   ) relating to the pursuit of approval of the transactions contemplated in the Original Confirmed Plan (including, for the avoidance of doubt, claims or Causes of Action regarding the effect of the filing of Docket No. 7028 on approval of the transactions contemplated in the Original Confirmed Plan) or claims or Causes of Action that may be brought by one or more of the Plan Sponsor Released Parties against any party who brings a claim or Cause of Action against the Plan Sponsor Released Parties relating to the pursuit of approval of the transactions contemplated in the Original Confirmed Plan;   provided, however,   for the avoidance of doubt, that the releases set forth above shall apply to the Plan Sponsor Released Parties  current and former directors, managers, officers, individual equity holders (regardless of whether such interests are held directly or indirectly), attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, representatives, and other professionals, each in their capacity as such.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, and for the avoidance of doubt, the TCEH Settlement Claim shall be treated, released, and discharged on the EFH Effective Date.  For the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Releasing Parties shall provide the release set forth in this Article VIII.D for all Claims and Causes of Action that relate to the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, or any non-Debtor Affiliate to be transferred to the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, including EFH Properties, as of the TCEH Effective Date; and (ii) the Releasing Parties shall provide the release set forth in this Article VIII.D for all Claims and Causes of Action that relate to the EFH Debtors, Reorganized EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, or Reorganized EFIH Debtors as of the EFH Effective Date;   provided   that any and all Intercompany Claims (other than the TCEH Settlement Claim) held by or held against the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, or any non-Debtor Affiliate to be transferred to the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, including EFH Properties, shall be released as of the TCEH Effective Date. 
           E. 
    Exculpation. 
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Plan, no Exculpated Party shall have or incur liability for, and each Exculpated Party is hereby released and exculpated from, any Cause of Action for any claim related to any act or omission in connection with, relating to, or arising out of, the Chapter 11 Cases, the formulation, preparation, dissemination, negotiation, Filing, or termination of the Terminated 

115 

Restructuring Support Agreement and related prepetition transactions, the Disclosure Statement, the Plan, the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Settlement Agreement, the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement, the Original Confirmed Plan, the Transaction Agreements, or any Restructuring Transaction, contract, instrument, release or other agreement or document (including providing any legal opinion requested by any Entity regarding any transaction, contract, instrument, document, or other agreement contemplated by the Plan or the reliance by any Exculpated Party on the Plan or the Confirmation Order in lieu of such legal opinion) created or entered into in connection with the Disclosure Statement, the Plan, the Original Confirmed Plan, the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, the EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement, the Transaction Agreements, or the DIP Facilities, the Filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the pursuit of Confirmation, the pursuit of Consummation, the administration and implementation of the Plan, including the issuance of Securities pursuant to the Plan, or the distribution of property under the Plan, the Transaction Agreements, or any other related agreement, except for claims related to any act or omission that is determined in a final order to have constituted actual fraud, willful misconduct, or gross negligence, but in all respects such Entities shall be entitled to reasonably rely upon the advice of counsel with respect to their duties and responsibilities pursuant to the Plan.  The Exculpated Parties have, and upon completion of the Plan shall be deemed to have, participated in good faith and in compliance with the applicable laws with regard to the solicitation of, and distribution of, consideration pursuant to the Plan and, therefore, are not, and on account of such distributions shall not be, liable at any time for the violation of any applicable law, rule, or regulation governing the solicitation of acceptances or rejections of the Plan or such distributions made pursuant to the Plan.  For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the exculpation set forth above does not exculpate any (i) claims or Causes of Action by the Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee against one or more Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee arising from or in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes, or (ii) claims or Causes of Action asserted by any Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims against one or more Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims (other than the TCEH First Lien Agent, except in the TCEH First Lien Agent s capacity as a nominal defendant to declaratory judgment claims in respect of which no monetary recovery is sought) solely with respect to the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute.  For the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Exculpated Parties that include or are related to the TCEH Debtors, Reorganized TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, and Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors shall receive the exculpation set forth in this Article VIII.E as of the TCEH Effective Date; and (ii) the Exculpated Parties that include or are related to the EFH Debtors, Reorganized EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, and Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall receive the exculpation set forth in this Article VIII.E as of the EFH Effective Date. 
           F. 
    Injunction. 
     In addition to any injunction provided in the Settlement Order, except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or for obligations issued or required to be paid pursuant to the Plan or the Confirmation Order, all Entities that have held, hold, or may hold Claims or Interests that have been released pursuant to Article VIII.C or Article VIII.D of the Plan, shall be discharged pursuant to Article VIII.A of the Plan, or are subject to exculpation pursuant to Article VIII.E of the Plan, are permanently enjoined, from and after the Effective Date, from taking any of the following actions against, as applicable, the Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, or the Released Parties:  (i) commencing or continuing in any manner any action or other proceeding of any kind on account of or in connection with or with respect to any such claims or interests; (ii) enforcing, attaching, collecting, or recovering by any manner or means any judgment, award, decree, or order against such Entities on account of or in connection with or with respect to any such claims or interests; (iii) creating, perfecting, or enforcing any lien or encumbrance of any kind against such Entities or the property or the estates of such Entities on account of or in connection with or with respect to any such claims or interests; (iv) asserting any right of setoff, subrogation, or recoupment of any kind against any obligation due from such Entities or against the property of such Entities on account of or in connection with or with respect to any such claims or interests unless such Entity has timely asserted such setoff right in a document Filed with the Bankruptcy Court explicitly preserving such setoff, and notwithstanding an indication of a claim or interest or otherwise that such Entity asserts, has, or intends to preserve any right of setoff pursuant to applicable law or otherwise; and (v) commencing or continuing in any manner any action or other 

116 

proceeding of any kind on account of or in connection with or with respect to any such claims or interests released or settled pursuant to the Plan, including those related to the PIK Settlement and any direction taken by the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee in connection therewith.  For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the injunction set forth above does not enjoin (a) the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes, or any claims or Causes of Action by the Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee against one or more Holders of TCEH First Lien Claims, the TCEH First Lien Agent, or the TCEH First Lien Notes Trustee arising from or in connection with the TCEH First Lien Creditor Allocation Disputes, or (b) the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute, or claims or Causes of Action asserted in the Marathon Delaware Action (in accordance with and as that term is defined in the   Stipulation and Consent Order Regarding Limited Objection of Marathon Asset Management, LP to Confirmation of Debtors  Fifth Amended Plan of Reorganization,   dated November 10, 2015 [D.I. 6932]) by any Holder of Allowed Class C3 Claims against one or more Holders of Allowed Class C3 Claims (other than the TCEH First Lien Agent, except in the TCEH First Lien Agent s capacity as a nominal defendant to declaratory judgment claims in respect of which no monetary recovery is sought) solely with respect to the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the Plan shall not enjoin any party from pursuing the claims and Causes of Action set forth in Section 6.12 of the Parent Disclosure Letter delivered in connection with the Merger Agreement;   provided, however  , that such Claims and Causes of Action shall be subject to treatment pursuant to the Plan and shall be discharged as set forth in Article VIII.A hereof.  Solely in the event the Settlement Approval Order is not entered (or the EFIH Settlement Agreement is otherwise terminated), the Plan shall not enjoin or otherwise prevent Holders of the EFIH First Lien Notes, Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes, the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, or the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee from prosecuting any appeal of any order with respect to any Makewhole Claims or any other Claims held by such parties;   provided  ,   however  , that (x) the liens securing the collateral of the EFIH First Lien Notes and EFIH Second Lien Notes will be released on the EFH Effective Date, (y) in the event the Settlement Approval Order is not entered (or the EFIH Settlement Agreement is otherwise terminated), the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, the Holders of EFIH First Lien Notes, the Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes, and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee reserve all rights with respect to the rights, claims, and defenses of each of the EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, the Holders of the EFIH First Lien Notes, the Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes, and the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee with regard to the litigation over the allowance of any Makewhole Claims or any other Claims asserted by the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee, the Holders of the EFIH First Lien Notes, the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee, and the Holders of the EFIH Second Lien Notes, and (z) the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee and EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee shall receive the Replacement EFIH First Lien and the Replacement EFIH Second Lien, respectively, on the EFIH Claims Reserve, as set forth in Article III.B.19 and Article III.B.20 of this Plan and shall (together with Holders of the EFIH First Lien Notes and the Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes) otherwise receive all protections and treatments set forth in the Plan. 
           G. 
    Liabilities to, and Rights of, Governmental Units. 
     Nothing in the Plan or the Confirmation Order shall release, discharge, or preclude the enforcement of:  (i) any liability to a Governmental Unit that is not a Claim; (ii) any Claim of a Governmental Unit arising on or after the Effective Date, other than taxes determined under the prompt determination procedure in section 505 of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent applicable; (iii) any liability to a Governmental Unit on the part of any Entity other than the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors; or (iv) any valid right of setoff or recoupment by any Governmental Unit. 
           H. 
    Environmental Law Matters. 
     Nothing in the Plan or the Confirmation Order shall release, discharge, or preclude the enforcement of (or preclude, release, defeat, or limit the defense under non-bankruptcy law of):  (i) any liability under Environmental Law to a Governmental Unit that is not a Claim; (ii) any Claim under Environmental Law of a Governmental Unit arising on or after the Effective Date; (iii) any liability under Environmental Law to a Governmental Unit on the part of any Entity to the extent of such Entity s liability under non-bankruptcy law on account of its status as owner or operator of such property after the Effective Date; (iv) any liability to a Governmental Unit on the part of any Entity other than the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors; or (v) any valid right of setoff or recoupment by any Governmental 

117 

Unit.  All parties  rights and defenses under Environmental Law with respect to (i) through (v) above are fully preserved.  For the avoidance of doubt, the United States is not a Releasing Party under the Plan.   
  Nothing in the Plan or the Confirmation Order shall enjoin or otherwise bar any Governmental Unit from asserting or enforcing, outside this Court, any liability described in the preceding paragraph.  Nothing in the Plan or the Confirmation Order authorizes:  (i) the transfer or assignment of any governmental license, permit, registration, authorization, or approval, or (ii) the discontinuation of any obligation thereunder, without compliance with all applicable legal requirements under Environmental Law.   The Bankruptcy Court retains jurisdiction, but not exclusive jurisdiction, to determine whether environmental liabilities asserted by any Governmental Unit are discharged or otherwise barred by the Confirmation Order or the Plan, or the Bankruptcy Code.   
  For the avoidance of doubt, all Claims under Environmental Law arising before the Effective Date, including penalty claims for days of violation prior to the Effective Date, shall be subject to Article VIII of the Plan and treated in accordance with the Plan in all respects and the Bankruptcy Court shall retain jurisdiction as provided in Article XI of the Plan in relation to the allowance or disallowance of any Claim under Environmental Law arising before the Effective Date. 
  Without limiting the Bankruptcy Court s jurisdiction as set forth above, nothing in the Plan or the Confirmation Order shall divest or limit the jurisdiction of other tribunals over the Environmental Action, and upon the Effective Date of the Plan, the Environmental Action shall survive the Chapter 11 Cases and may be adjudicated in the court or tribunal in which such Environmental Action is currently pending;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , any judgment for a Claim in the Environmental Action arising before the Effective Date shall be treated in accordance with the Plan in all respects;   provided  ,   further  ,   however  , that nothing in the Plan shall preclude, release, defeat, or limit any grounds for asserting or opposing an alleged defense or affirmative defense under non-bankruptcy law in the Environmental Action based on any change in ownership, and all such grounds for asserting or opposing such defenses and affirmative defenses under non-bankruptcy law are expressly preserved.  With respect to the Environmental Action, this Article VIII.H does not alter any rights or defenses under non-bankruptcy law arising as a result of any changes of ownership provided in the Plan or the Confirmation Order.  The Governmental Units reserve all rights as to whether there are any such rights or defenses. 
           I. 
    Protections Against Discriminatory Treatment. 
     Consistent with section 525 of the Bankruptcy Code and the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution, all Entities, including Governmental Units, shall not discriminate against the Reorganized Debtors or deny, revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew a license, permit, charter, franchise, or other similar grant to, condition such a grant to, discriminate with respect to such a grant against, the Reorganized Debtors, or another Entity with whom the Reorganized Debtors have been associated, solely because each Debtor has been a debtor under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, has been insolvent before the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases (or during the Chapter 11 Cases but before the Debtors are granted or denied a discharge), or has not paid a debt that is dischargeable in the Chapter 11 Cases. 
           J. 
    Recoupment. 
     In no event shall any Holder of Claims or Interests be entitled to recoup any Claim against any claim, right, or Cause of Action of the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, unless such Holder actually has performed such recoupment and provided notice thereof in writing to the Debtors on or before the Confirmation Date, notwithstanding any indication in any Proof of Claim or Proof of Interest or otherwise that such Holder asserts, has, or intends to preserve any right of recoupment. 
           K. 
    Document Retention. 
     On and after the Effective Date, the Reorganized Debtors may maintain documents in accordance with their standard document retention policy, as may be altered, amended, modified, or supplemented by the Reorganized Debtors. 

118 

ARTICLE IX. 
  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CONFIRMATION 
  AND CONSUMMATION OF THE PLAN 
           A. 
    Conditions Precedent to Confirmation of a Plan as to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
     It shall be a condition to Confirmation of the Plan with respect to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors that the following shall have been satisfied or waived pursuant to the provisions of Article IX.E of the Plan: 
  1.    the Bankruptcy Court shall have entered the TCEH Disclosure Statement Order and the TCEH Confirmation Order in a manner consistent in all material respects with the Plan and Settlement Order and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (and, solely to the extent that the Spin-Off Conditions have been satisfied or would be satisfied by entry of the TCEH Confirmation Order, the Plan Sponsor); and 
  2.    the Settlement Order shall remain in full force and effect; and 
  3.    the TCEH Confirmation Order shall, among other things: 
           (a) 
    authorize the TCEH Debtors, the EFH Shared Services Debtors, the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, and the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors to take all actions necessary to enter into, implement, and consummate the applicable contracts, instruments, releases, leases, indentures, and other agreements or documents created in connection with the Plan; 
              (b) 
    decree that the provisions of the TCEH Confirmation Order and the provisions of the Plan applicable to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors are nonseverable and mutually dependent; 
              (c) 
    authorize the TCEH Debtors to consummate either or both of the Spin-Off or the Taxable Separation, in each case subject to satisfaction of all applicable conditions to consummation;  
              (d) 
    authorize the TCEH Debtors, the EFH Shared Services Debtors, the Reorganized TCEH Debtors, and the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, as applicable/necessary, to:  (i) implement the applicable Restructuring Transactions; (ii) issue and distribute the New Reorganized TCEH Debt, the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity, the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock, each pursuant to the exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code or other exemption from such registration or pursuant to one or more registration statements; (iii) make all distributions and issuances as required under the Plan, including Cash, the New Reorganized TCEH Debt, the Reorganized TCEH Common Stock, the common stock of the Preferred Stock Entity, and the Reorganized TCEH Sub Preferred Stock; and (iv) enter into any agreements, transactions, and sales of property as set forth in the Plan Supplement; and 
              (e) 
    provide that, pursuant to section 1146 of the Bankruptcy Code, the assignment or surrender of any lease or sublease, and the delivery of any deed or other instrument or transfer order in furtherance of, or in connection with, any transfers of property pursuant to the Plan as it relates to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, including any deeds, mortgages, security interest filings, bills of sale, or assignments executed in connection with any disposition or transfer of assets 

119 

contemplated under the Plan as it relates to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors shall not be subject to any document recording tax, stamp tax, conveyance fee, intangibles or similar tax, mortgage tax, stamp act, real estate transfer tax, mortgage recording tax, or other similar tax, and upon entry of the TCEH Confirmation Order, the appropriate state or local governmental officials or agents shall forgo the collection of any such tax or governmental assessment and accept for filing and recordation any of the foregoing instruments or other documents without the payment of any such tax, recordation fee, or governmental assessment. 
           B. 
    Conditions Precedent to Confirmation of a Plan as to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors. 
     It shall be a condition to Confirmation of the Plan with respect to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors that the following shall have been satisfied or waived pursuant to the provisions of Article IX.E of the Plan: 
  1.    the Bankruptcy Court shall have entered the EFH Disclosure Statement Order and the EFH Confirmation Order in a manner consistent in all material respects with the Plan, the Settlement Order, the Merger Agreement, and the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and the Plan Sponsor;  
  2.    the Settlement Order shall remain in full force and effect; and 
  3.    the EFH Confirmation Order shall, among other things: 
           (a) 
    authorize the EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and the Reorganized EFIH Debtors to take all actions necessary to enter into, implement, and consummate the contracts, instruments, releases, leases, indentures, and other agreements or documents created in connection with the Plan, including the Restructuring Transactions and the Transaction Agreements; 
              (b) 
    decree that the provisions of the EFH Confirmation Order and the Plan are nonseverable and mutually dependent; 
              (c) 
    authorize the EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and the Reorganized EFIH Debtors, as applicable/necessary, to:  (i) implement the Restructuring Transactions; (ii) issue and distribute the Reorganized EFH Common Stock pursuant to the exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code or other exemption from such registration or pursuant to one or more registration statements; (iii) make all distributions and issuances as required under the Plan, including Cash and the Reorganized EFH Common Stock; and (iv) enter into any agreements, transactions, and sales of property as set forth in the Plan Supplement;  
              (d) 
    provide that, pursuant to section 1146 of the Bankruptcy Code, the assignment or surrender of any lease or sublease, and the delivery of any deed or other instrument or transfer order in furtherance of, or in connection with, any transfers of property pursuant to the Plan, including any deeds, mortgages, security interest filings, bills of sale, or assignments executed in connection with any disposition or transfer of assets contemplated under the Plan shall not be subject to any document recording tax, stamp tax, conveyance fee, intangibles or similar tax, mortgage tax, stamp act, real estate transfer tax, mortgage recording tax, or other similar tax, and upon entry of the EFH Confirmation Order, the appropriate state or local governmental officials or agents shall forgo the collection of any such tax or governmental assessment and accept for filing and recordation any of the foregoing instruments or other documents without the payment of any such tax, recordation fee, or governmental assessment; 
              (e) 
    provide for the release of the EFIH First Lien Notes Trustee s Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve at such time when all Claims based upon or under the EFIH First Lien Notes 

120 

(including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Claims based upon or under the EFIH Collateral Trust Agreement) have either been (i) paid in full (to the extent Allowed) including all interest thereon (to the extent Allowed), in Cash, or (ii) disallowed by Final Order and, upon such release, the funds in the EFIH Claims Reserve attributable to the Claims of Holders of EFIH First Lien Notes shall be deposited in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account;   provided, however  , that, except as provided otherwise in the EFH Confirmation Order and any Reserve Order, nothing herein shall prevent the EFH Plan Administrator Board, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee from seeking entry of an order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following the entry of the Reserve Order; 
           (f) 
    provide for the release of the EFIH Second Lien Notes Trustee s Lien on the EFIH Claims Reserve at such time when all Claims based upon or under the EFIH Second Lien Notes have been either (i) Allowed (whether before, on, or after the EFH Effective Date) and paid in full (to the extent Allowed), including all interest thereon (to the extent Allowed), in Cash, or (ii) disallowed by Final Order and, upon such release, the funds in the EFIH Claims Reserve attributable to the Claims of Holders of EFIH Second Lien Notes shall be deposited in the EFH/EFIH Distribution Account;   provided, however  , that, except as provided otherwise in the EFH Confirmation Order and any Reserve Order, nothing herein shall prevent the EFH Plan Administrator Board, the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee, or the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee from seeking entry of a Subsequent Reserve Order by the Court authorizing, and the Court granting, reductions of, and distributions from, the EFIH Claims Reserve following the entry of the Reserve Order; 
              (g) 
    authorize the EFIH Unsecured Notes Trustee to comply with the directives of the Threshold Supporting Creditors; and 
              (h) 
    provide that, from and after the EFH Effective Date, the Reorganized EFH Debtors and Reorganized EFIH Debtors shall have no liabilities other than those liabilities expressly set forth in the Plan. 
              C. 
    Conditions Precedent to the TCEH Effective Date.    
     It shall be a condition to the TCEH Effective Date that the following conditions shall have been satisfied or waived pursuant to the provisions of Article IX.E of the Plan: 
  1.    the TCEH Confirmation Order shall have been duly entered in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Debtors, EFH Shared Services Debtors,  and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors; 
  2.    the Settlement Order shall remain in full force and effect; 
  3.    the final version of the Plan, the Plan Supplement, and all of the schedules, documents, and exhibits contained therein (including the New Employee Agreements/Arrangements and the Employment Agreements), in each case solely with respect to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, shall have been Filed in a manner consistent in all material respects with the Plan, the Transaction Agreements (as applicable to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors), the Plan Support Agreement, and the Settlement Order, and shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the TCEH Debtors, the EFH Shared Services Debtors, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors; 
  4.    all Allowed Professional Fee Claims with respect to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors approved by the Bankruptcy Court shall have been paid in full or amounts sufficient to pay such Allowed Professional Fee Claims after the TCEH Effective Date have been placed in the TCEH Professional Fee Escrow Account pending approval of the Professional Fee Claims by the Bankruptcy Court;  
  5.    the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors shall have obtained all authorizations, 

121 

consents, regulatory approvals, including from the FERC, NRC, and FCC, as applicable, rulings, or documents that are necessary to the Restructuring Transactions pertaining to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors, including the Spin-Off or the Taxable Separation, as applicable, and shall remain in full force and effect, and the RCT shall have approved the substitute bond with respect to the TCEH Debtors  mining reclamation obligations; 
  6.    all conditions to the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Tax Matters Agreement and the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement or the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement, as applicable, shall have been satisfied or shall have been waived by the party entitled to waive them, and the transactions contemplated by the Transition Services Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Separation Agreement, the Amended and Restated Split Participant Agreement, and the Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement or Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement, as applicable, shall be completed substantially simultaneously on the TCEH Effective Date, and, other than in respect of the Spin-Off Tax Receivable Agreement or Taxable Separation Tax Receivable Agreement, as applicable, shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Plan Sponsor; 
  7.    any waiting period applicable to the Spin-Off or the Taxable Separation under the HSR Act or similar law or statute shall have been terminated or shall have expired; and 
  8.    solely as a condition to the TCEH Effective Date if the Spin-Off is to be effectuated pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Article IV.B.2: 
           (a) 
    the Approval Order shall have been duly entered and remain in full force and effect and shall be a Final Order; 
              (b) 
    the Debtors shall have obtained the Fundamental Opinions (other than any aspects of the Fundamental Opinions that relate to the effect of the Merger, which opinions may be obtained following the TCEH Effective Date and shall be a condition to the EFH Effective Date, not the TCEH Effective Date), and such opinions have not been withdrawn, rescinded, or amended; 
              (c) 
    the facts presented and the representations made in the IRS Submissions are true, correct, and complete in all material respects as of the TCEH Effective Date; 
              (d) 
    except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Private Letter Ruling, or the Plan Support Agreement, the Debtors shall not have taken any action to change the entity classification for U.S. tax purposes of any Debtor entity, by changing their legal form or otherwise, without the consent of the Plan Sponsor, TCEH, and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors;   provided  ,   however  , that the consent of TCEH and the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors shall not be required with respect to any such action with respect to any Debtor entity other than TCEH, the Reorganized EFH Shared Services Debtors, Reorganized TCEH, the Preferred Stock Entity, or any of their respective subsidiaries, if such action does not directly affect the Contribution, the Spin-Off Preferred Stock Sale, the Reorganized TCEH Conversion, or the Distribution and does not prevent or delay EFH Corp. from obtaining the Private Letter Ruling or adversely affect the Spin-Off Intended Tax Treatment; 
              (e) 
    (i) no Debtor shall have taken any action that results in an ownership change of EFH Corp. within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (including by treating the equity interests of EFH Corp. as becoming worthless within the meaning of Section 382(g)(4)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code); and (ii) Texas Holdings shall not have (A) taken any action that results in an ownership change of EFH Corp. within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (including by treating the equity interests of EFH Corp. as becoming worthless within the meaning of Section 382(g)(4)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and thereby resulting in an ownership change of EFH Corp. within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code); (B) knowingly permitted any person (other than Texas 

122 

Holdings) to own directly, indirectly or constructively (by operation of Section 318 as modified by Section 382(l)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code) 50% or more of the equity interests of EFH Corp. during the three-year period ending on the Effective Date; or (C) changed its taxable year to be other than the calendar year;  
           (f) 
    the Private Letter Ruling remains in full force and effect and has not been revoked or withdrawn; and 
              (g) 
    the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors shall have been given the right to participate with respect to the process of obtaining the Supplemental Ruling, including by (i) commenting on written submissions, (ii) having participation in in-person conferences, (iii) having participation in scheduled, substantive telephone conferences with the IRS and (iv) being updated promptly regarding any unscheduled communications with the IRS, provided, however, that the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors shall work in good faith with counsel for the Debtors to determine the appropriate level of participation by any other persons in any particular meeting or conference. 
     For the avoidance of doubt, consummation of the Spin-Off or Taxable Separation and the occurrence of the TCEH Effective Date shall be conditioned solely on the conditions precedent to the TCEH Effective Date enumerated in this Article IX.C, and the TCEH Effective Date may occur prior to the EFH Effective Date. 
           D. 
    Conditions Precedent to the EFH Effective Date. 
     It shall be a condition to the EFH Effective Date that the following conditions shall have been satisfied or waived pursuant to the provisions of Article IX.E of the Plan: 
  1.    the EFH Confirmation Order shall (a) have been duly entered in form and substance acceptable to the EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, and the Plan Sponsor, (b) reasonably acceptable to the other EFH/EFIH Plan Supporters (in accordance with the terms of the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, and the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement) and (c) shall be consistent in all material respects with the TCEH Confirmation Order; 
  2.    the Settlement Order shall remain in full force and effect; 
  3.    the Plan Sponsor, Reorganized TCEH, and EFH Corp., as applicable, shall have obtained all tax opinions (including those with respect to the Fundamental Opinions) contemplated by the Merger Agreement; 
  4.    the TCEH Effective Date shall have occurred, including the assumption and assignment of the Employment Agreements to Reorganized TCEH; 
  5.    the final version of the Plan, the Plan Supplement, and all of the schedules, documents, and exhibits contained therein shall have been Filed in a manner consistent in all material respects with the Plan, the Transaction Agreements, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement,the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Support Agreement, and the Settlement Order, and shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the EFH Debtors, EFIH Debtors, and the EFH/EFIH Plan Supporters; 
  6.    the EFH Professional Fee Escrow Account and EFIH Professional Fee Escrow Amount shall have been funded in accordance with Article II.A.2; 
  7.     (i) no Debtor shall have taken any action that results in an ownership change of EFH Corp. within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (including by treating the equity interests of EFH Corp. as becoming worthless within the meaning of Section 382(g)(4)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code); and (ii) Texas Holdings shall not have (A) taken any action that results in an ownership change of EFH Corp. within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (including by treating the equity interests of EFH Corp. as becoming worthless within the meaning of Section 382(g)(4)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and thereby resulting in an 

123 

ownership change of EFH Corp. within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code); (B) knowingly permitted any person (other than Texas Holdings) to own directly, indirectly or constructively (by operation of Section 318 as modified by Section 382(l)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code) 50% or more of the equity interests of EFH Corp. during the three-year period ending on the Effective Date; or (C) changed its taxable year to be other than the calendar year; 
  8.    the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors shall have obtained all authorizations, consents, regulatory approvals, rulings, or documents that are necessary to implement and effectuate the Restructuring Transactions with respect to the EFH Debtors, including the Merger, and the transactions contemplated thereby, including from the FERC, PUC, and FCC, as applicable, consistent in all material respects with the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement; 
  9.    all conditions to the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement shall have been satisfied or shall have been waived by the party entitled to waive them, and the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements shall be completed; 
  10.    except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all Claims against the EFH Debtors and/or the EFIH Debtors seeking postpetition interest on any Claim at a rate in excess of the Federal Judgment Rate shall have been disallowed by order of the Bankruptcy Court, and such order shall have not been stayed or reversed or remanded on appeal; 
  11.    the Restructuring Transactions (including, for the avoidance of doubt, all conditions to and transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement), shall have been consummated in form and manner reasonably acceptable to the EFH Debtors, the EFIH Debtors, and the Plan Sponsor, and consistent in all material respects with the Plan and the Transaction Agreements;   provided  ,   however  , that implementation or consummation of the Minority Interest Acquisition shall not be a condition to the EFH Effective Date;  
  12.    immediately prior to consummation of the Merger, all assets of Reorganized EFH and each subsidiary of Reorganized EFH shall be free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and other interests and Reorganized EFH and each subsidiary of Reorganized EFH shall have no liabilities except for (a) up to $10 million for postpetition claims and liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business (and liens and encumbrances securing any such ordinary course liabilities) of the EFH Debtors  or EFIH Debtors  postpetition business that shall be fully paid and discharged as and when due in the ordinary course of business pursuant to the Plan and (b) obligations owed to the Plan Sponsor (or any pre-Merger Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor) expressly contemplated by the Merger Agreement;  
  13.    the requirements in the Merger Agreement with respect to the Supplemental Rulings, including with respect to IRS communications related to such Supplemental Rulings, shall have been satisfied;  
  14.    if the Spin-Off is consummated, the Private Letter Ruling remains in full force and effect and has not been revoked or withdrawn;  

124 

15.    the consummation of the Merger shall not be in violation of the provisions of the Tax Matters Agreement; and 
  16.    if the Settlement Approval Order is not entered, no settlement order(s) shall have been entered over the objection of the Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee Allowing the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims or the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claims, in a settlement amount or manner inconsistent with the terms of the Plan (and no such motion related thereto shall be pending to Allow the EFIH First Lien Makewhole Claims or the EFIH Second Lien Makewhole Claim in a settlement amount that is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan). 
  For the avoidance of doubt, entry of the Settlement Approval Order shall not be a condition precedent to the EFH Effective Date. 
           E. 
    Waiver of Conditions. 
     Except with respect to Article IX.C.4, the conditions to Confirmation with respect to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors and the TCEH Effective Date set forth in this Article IX may be waived by the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor, with the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld);   provided  , that in the event the condition to Consummation set forth in Article IX.C.8 is not satisfied, the TCEH Debtors may nevertheless consummate the Taxable Separation and the TCEH Effective Date may occur so long as the other conditions to Confirmation and Consummation have been satisfied or waived in accordance with this Article IX.E;   provided further   that in no event shall either of the conditions set forth in Article IX.C.6 or IX.C.8 be waived without the consent of the Plan Sponsor. 
  The conditions to Confirmation with respect to the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors and the EFH Effective Date set forth in Articles IX.B.1 through IX.B.3, IX.D.1(a), IX.D.1(b), IX.D2 through IX.D.5, IX.D.11, and IX.D.13 through IX.D.15 may be waived subject to the consent of each of (a) the EFH Debtors, (b) the EFIH Debtors, and (c) the Plan Sponsor, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor;   provided   that the conditions precedent to the EFH Effective Date set forth in Article IX.D.1(c) and IX.D.15 shall not be waived without the consent of Reorganized TCEH.  The conditions to the EFH Effective Date set forth in Articles IX.D.7, IX.D.8, IX.D.10, and IX.D.12 may be waived by the Plan Sponsor in its sole and absolute discretion.  The conditions to the EFH Effective Date set forth in Articles IX.D.6 and IX.D.9 may not be waived pursuant to this Article IX.E, but may only be waived pursuant to waiver rights expressly provided therein, if any.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, conditions to Confirmation with respect to the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors and the EFH Effective Date that are required under the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement and subject to waiver by the Debtors shall not be waived without the consent of the EFIH Supporting Unsecured Creditors or the Pre-Effective Date Makewhole Litigation Oversight Committee.   
           F. 
    Effect of Failure of Conditions. 
     Unless extended by the Debtors, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor, if the Effective Date does not occur before one year following Confirmation, with respect to a particular Debtor, then, as to such particular Debtor:  (1) the Plan shall be null and void in all respects; (2) any settlement or compromise embodied in the Plan, assumption or rejection of Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases effected under the Plan, and any document or agreement executed pursuant to the Plan, shall be deemed null and void; and (3) nothing contained in the Plan shall:  (a) constitute a waiver or release of any Claims, Interests, or Causes of Action; (b) prejudice in any manner the rights of such Debtor or any other Entity; or (c) constitute an admission, acknowledgement, offer, or undertaking of any sort by such Debtor or any other Entity.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Settlement embodied in the Settlement Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the failure of Confirmation or Consummation to occur with respect to any or all Debtors shall not affect the Settlement or any provisions of the Settlement Agreement and (ii) if the Spin-Off is effectuated, the Approval Order shall remain in full force and effect and the failure of Confirmation or Consummation to occur 

125 

with respect to any Debtor (other than a TCEH Debtor) shall not affect the Approval Order or the Tax Matters Agreement. 
           G. 
    Certain IRS Matters. 
     The Plan provides (a) that as a condition precedent to the TCEH Effective Date in the event of a Spin-Off, the Private Letter Ruling obtained by the Debtors is in full force and effect and shall not have been revoked or withdrawn and (b) as a condition precedent to the EFH Effective Date, that the requirements in the Merger Agreement with respect to the Supplemental Rulings shall have been satisfied.   
  Nothing in the Plan (or subsequently amended Plan) or the Confirmation Order shall be deemed to waive the right of the IRS to object to confirmation of a subsequently amended Plan or alternative chapter 11 plan to the extent the U.S. would be entitled to object to confirmation under applicable law, including to the extent that the Debtors choose to go forward with a chapter 11 plan that is premised on a taxable separation of TCEH from EFH Corp. and not a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(G) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Specifically, the Debtors may not oppose the U.S. s objection on the grounds of failure to file an earlier objection, equitable mootness, laches, estoppel, or a similar theory.  The U.S. may move for a stay of the Effective Date in conjunction with its objection, and the Debtors  right to object to any such motion are preserved. 
  Nothing in the Plan (or subsequently amended Plan) or Confirmation Order shall affect the rights of the IRS or United States to assess or collect a tax arising on or after the Confirmation Date against Reorganized EFH, any member of its consolidated group, and/or any successor entities as permitted under applicable law. 

ARTICLE X. 
  MODIFICATION, REVOCATION, OR WITHDRAWAL OF THE PLAN 
           A. 
    Modification and Amendments. 
     Subject to the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, and the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, the Merger Agreement and the Plan Sponsor s consent (as described below), each of the Debtors, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor, reserves the right to modify the Plan, one or more times, before Confirmation, whether such modification is material or immaterial, and to seek Confirmation consistent with the Bankruptcy Code.  Subject to certain restrictions and requirements set forth in section 1127 of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rule 3019, each of the Debtors, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each of the Debtors acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor, expressly reserves its respective rights to alter, amend, or modify the Plan, one or more times, after Confirmation and, to the extent necessary, may initiate proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court to so alter, amend, or modify the Plan, or remedy any defect or omission, or reconcile any inconsistencies in the Plan, the Disclosure Statement, or the Confirmation Order, including with respect to such modifications.  Any alteration, amendment, or modification to the Plan shall be in accordance with the Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, and the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement and in form and substance reasonably acceptable to (i) the Plan Sponsor (both with respect to (a) the Plan of the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, it being understood that it shall be reasonable for the Plan Sponsor to deem unacceptable any alteration, amendment, or modification that (1) results in the imposition or reinstatement of any Claim against or Interest in the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFIH Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, or any Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor or (2) alters any consent right in favor of the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFIH Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, or any Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor, and (b) the Plan of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, but only to the extent that such alteration, amendment, or modification affects the rights or liabilities of the Reorganized EFH Debtors, the Reorganized EFIH Debtors, the Plan Sponsor, or any Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor), (ii) the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (both with respect to (a) the Plan of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors and (b) the Plan of the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors, but only to the extent that such alteration, amendment, or modification affects the rights or liabilities of Reorganized TCEH)), and (iii) the DIP Agents (and solely with respect to the repayment of the DIP Facilities, acceptable to the DIP Agents).  The Debtors may not amend the Plan in a manner inconsistent with the 

126 

EFH/EFIH Committee Settlement without the prior consent of the EFH/EFIH Committee and the EFH Notes Trustee. 
           B. 
    Effect of Confirmation on Modifications. 
     Entry of a Confirmation Order shall mean that each alteration, amendment, or modification to the Plan since the solicitation thereof are approved pursuant to section 1127(a) of the Bankruptcy Code and do not require additional disclosure or resolicitation under Bankruptcy Rule 3019;   provided  ,   however  , that each alteration, amendment, or modification shall be made in accordance with Article X.A of the Plan. 
           C. 
    Revocation or Withdrawal of Plan. 
     1.    Revocation or Withdrawal of the Plan with Respect to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors. 
  Subject to the Plan Support Agreement, the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the  EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, and the Merger Agreement, each of the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors, including, in the case of any Conflict Matter between any Debtors, each TCEH Debtor or EFH Shared Services Debtor acting at the direction of its respective Disinterested Director or Manager and without the consent of any other Debtor, reserves the right to revoke or withdraw the Plan as it applies to the TCEH Debtors and EFH Shared Services Debtors before the Confirmation Date and to File subsequent plans for any reason, including to the extent the Debtors receive a higher or otherwise better offer than what is provided for in the Plan, or if pursuing Confirmation of the Plan would be inconsistent with any Debtor s fiduciary duties;   provided  ,   however  , that the Debtors shall not seek to revoke or withdraw the Plan with respect to the TCEH Debtors without the consent of the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld);   provided further  ,   however  , that the Debtors may withdraw support of the Plan with respect to the TCEH Debtors without any party s consent.   
  2.    Revocation or Withdrawal of the Plan with Respect to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors. 
  Each EFH Debtor and EFIH Debtor reserves the right to revoke or withdraw the Plan as it applies to the EFH Debtors and the EFIH Debtors only to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, as applicable, and the Merger Agreement. 
  3.    Consequence of Withdrawal of the Plan. 
  If any of the Debtors revoke or withdraw the Plan, or if Confirmation or Consummation does not occur, then:  (1) the Plan shall be null and void in all respects as to such Debtors; (2) any settlement or compromise embodied in the Plan (other than the Settlement embodied in the Settlement Agreement), assumption or rejection of Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases effected under the Plan, and any document or agreement executed pursuant to the Plan, shall be deemed null and void as to such Debtors; and (3) nothing contained in the Plan shall:  (a) constitute a waiver or release of any Claims, Interests, or Causes of Action as to such Debtors; (b) prejudice in any manner the rights of such Debtor or any other Entity; or (c) constitute an admission, acknowledgement, offer, or undertaking of any sort by such Debtor or any other Entity.  Notwithstanding the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Settlement embodied in the Settlement Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the failure of Confirmation or Consummation to occur with respect to any or all Debtors shall not affect the Settlement or any provisions of the Settlement Agreement and (ii) if the Spin-Off is effectuated, the Approval Order (and the agreements authorized thereby) shall remain in full force and effect and the failure of Confirmation or Consummation to occur with respect to any Debtor (other than a TCEH Debtor) shall not affect the Approval Order or the Tax Matters Agreement. 

ARTICLE XI. 
  RETENTION OF JURISDICTION 
  Notwithstanding the entry of the Confirmation Order and the occurrence of the Effective Date, on and after the Effective Date, the Bankruptcy Court shall retain exclusive jurisdiction (subject to any withdrawal of the 

127 

reference of any proceeding by the district court or any appeal of any order, judgment, or decree of the Bankruptcy Court) over all matters arising out of, or related to, the Chapter 11 Cases and the Plan pursuant to sections 105(a) and 1142 of the Bankruptcy Code to the extent provided under applicable law, including jurisdiction to: 
  1.    allow, disallow, determine, liquidate, classify, estimate, or establish the priority, Secured or unsecured status, or amount of any Claim or Interest, including the resolution of any request for payment of any Administrative Claim and the resolution of any and all objections to the Secured or unsecured status, priority, amount, or allowance of Claims or Interests; 
  2.    approve any settlement of Claims, including Makewhole Claims, to the extent one or more parties seeks Bankruptcy Court approval of such settlement of Claims. 
  3.    hear and determine matters related to the DIP Facilities and the DIP Orders; 
  4.    decide and resolve all matters related to the granting and denying, in whole or in part, of any applications for allowance of compensation or reimbursement of expenses to Professionals authorized pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code or the Plan; 
  5.    resolve any matters related to:  (a) the assumption, assumption and assignment, or rejection of any Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease to which a Debtor is party or with respect to which a Debtor may be liable and to hear, determine, and, if necessary, liquidate, any Claims arising therefrom, including Cure Claims pursuant to section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code; (b) any potential contractual obligation under any Executory Contract or Unexpired Lease that is assumed; (c) the Reorganized Debtors  amending, modifying, or supplementing, after the Effective Date, pursuant to Article V of the Plan, any Executory Contracts or Unexpired Leases to the Assumed Executory Contracts and Unexpired Lease List, Rejected Executory Contracts and Unexpired Lease List, or otherwise; and (d) any dispute regarding whether a contract or lease is or was executory or expired; 
  6.    adjudicate, decide, or resolve any motions, adversary proceedings, contested or litigated matters, and any other matters, and grant or deny any applications involving a Debtor that may be pending on the Effective Date; 
  7.    adjudicate, decide, or resolve any and all matters related to section 1141 of the Bankruptcy Code; 
  8.    enter and implement such orders as may be necessary to execute, implement, or consummate the Plan and all contracts, instruments, releases, indentures, and other agreements or documents created in connection with the Plan or the Disclosure Statement, including injunctions or other actions as may be necessary to restrain interference by an Entity with Consummation or enforcement of the Plan; 
  9.    enter and enforce any order for the sale of property pursuant to sections 363, 1123, or 1146(a) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
  10.    adjudicate, decide, or resolve any and all matters related to the Restructuring Transactions, including the Tax Matters Agreement; 
  11.    grant any consensual request to extend the deadline for assuming or rejecting Unexpired Leases pursuant to section 365(d)(4) of the Bankruptcy Code; 
  12.    resolve any cases, controversies, suits, disputes, Causes of Action, or any other matters that may arise in connection with the Consummation, interpretation, or enforcement of the Plan, the Disclosure Statement, the Confirmation Order, or the Restructuring Transactions, or any Entity s obligations incurred in connection with the foregoing, including disputes arising under agreements, documents, or instruments executed in connection with the Plan, the Disclosure Statement, the Confirmation Order, or the Restructuring Transactions; 

128 

13.    resolve any cases, controversies, suits, disputes, or Causes of Action with respect to the releases, injunctions, and other provisions contained in Article VIII of the Plan and enter such orders as may be necessary to implement such releases, injunctions, and other provisions; 
  14.    resolve any cases, controversies, suits, disputes, or Causes of Action relating to the distribution or the repayment or return of distributions and the recovery of additional amounts owed by the Holder of a Claim for amounts not timely repaid pursuant to Article VI.L.1 of the Plan; 
  15.    enter and implement such orders as are necessary if the Confirmation Order is for any reason modified, stayed, reversed, revoked, or vacated; 
  16.    enter an order or decree concluding or closing the Chapter 11 Cases; 
  17.    adjudicate any and all disputes arising from or relating to distributions under the Plan, including the TCEH First Lien Creditor Deposit L/C Collateral Allocation Dispute; 
  18.    consider any modifications of the Plan, to cure any defect or omission, or to reconcile any inconsistency in any Bankruptcy Court order, including the Confirmation Order; 
  19.    hear and determine matters concerning state, local, and federal taxes in accordance with sections 346, 505, and 1146 of the Bankruptcy Code, including any request made under section 505 of the Bankruptcy Code for the expedited determination of any unpaid liability of a Debtor for any tax incurred during the administration of the Chapter 11 Cases, including any tax liability arising from or relating to the Restructuring Transactions, for tax periods ending after the Petition Date and through the closing of the Chapter 11 Cases; 
  20.    except as otherwise limited herein, recover all assets of the Debtors and property of the Estates, wherever located;  
  21.    enforce all orders previously entered by the Bankruptcy Court; and 
  22.    hear any other matter not inconsistent with the Bankruptcy Code. 

ARTICLE XII. 
  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
           A. 
    Immediate Binding Effect. 
     Subject to Article IX.C and Article IX.D of the Plan, as applicable, and notwithstanding Bankruptcy Rules 3020(e), 6004(h), or 7062 or otherwise, upon the occurrence of the Effective Date, the terms of the Plan shall be immediately effective and enforceable and deemed binding upon the applicable Debtors, the Reorganized Debtors, and any and all applicable Holders of Claims or Interests (irrespective of whether such Claims or Interests are deemed to have accepted the Plan), all Entities that are parties to or are subject to the settlements, compromises, releases, discharges, exculpations, and injunctions described in the Plan, each Entity acquiring property under the Plan, and any and all non-Debtor parties to Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases with the Debtors.  Nothing in the Plan or the Confirmation Order affects the DIP Lenders  rights or interests provided under the DIP Facilities, the DIP Agreements, or the DIP Orders, including with respect to (1) any waivers or releases contained therein or (2) the DIP Agents  rights to exercise event of default remedies (including after the Confirmation Date and before the Effective Date), until the DIP Claims are satisfied in full. 
           B. 
    Additional Documents. 
     On or before the Effective Date, the Debtors may File with the Bankruptcy Court such agreements and other documents as may be necessary or advisable to effectuate and further evidence the terms and conditions of the Plan, in accordance with the Merger Agreement, the EFIH Unsecured Creditor Plan Support Agreement, and the Plan Sponsor Plan Support Agreement.  The Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors, as applicable, and all Holders of 
  129 

Claims and Interests receiving distributions pursuant to the Plan and all other parties in interest shall, from time to time, prepare, execute, and deliver any agreements or documents and take any other actions as may be necessary or advisable to effectuate the provisions and intent of the Plan. 
           C. 
    Payment of Statutory Fees. 
     All fees payable pursuant to section 1930(a) of the Judicial Code, including fees and expenses payable to the U.S. Trustee, as determined by the Bankruptcy Court at a hearing pursuant to section 1128 of the Bankruptcy Code, will be paid by each of the applicable Reorganized Debtors (or the Disbursing Agent on behalf of each of the applicable Reorganized Debtors) for each quarter (including any fraction thereof) until the applicable Chapter 11 Case of such Reorganized Debtors is converted, dismissed, or closed, whichever occurs first.  All such fees due and payable prior to the Effective Date shall be paid by the Debtors on the Effective Date.  After the Effective Date, the Disbursing Agent or the applicable Reorganized Debtor shall pay any and all such fees when due and payable, and shall file with the Bankruptcy Court quarterly reports in a form reasonably acceptable to the U.S. Trustee, until the earliest of the date on which the applicable Chapter 11 Case of the Reorganized Debtors is converted, dismissed, or closed. 
           D. 
    Statutory Committee and Cessation of Fee and Expense Payment. 
     On the TCEH Effective Date, any statutory committee appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases with respect to the TCEH Debtors (including the TCEH Committee) and, on the EFH Effective Date, any statutory committee appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases with respect to the EFH Debtors or the EFIH Debtors (including the EFH/EFIH Committee) shall dissolve;   provided  ,   however  , that (a) following the Effective Date, the EFH/EFIH Committee and the TCEH Committee shall continue in existence and have standing and a right to be heard for the following limited purposes: (i) Claims and/or applications, and any relief related thereto, for compensation by professionals and requests for allowance of Administrative Claims for substantial contribution pursuant to section 503(b)(3)(D) of the Bankruptcy Code; and (ii) appeals of the Confirmation Order as to which the EFH/EFIH Committee or TCEH Committee, as applicable, is a party; and (b) following the TCEH Effective Date, the TCEH Committee shall continue in existence and have standing and a right to be heard for the purpose of (i) the sale of the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors  indirect interest in Oncor and confirmation of the Plan related to the EFH Debtors and EFIH Debtors and (ii) estimating, objecting to, allowing, or setting reserves with respect to any Disputed Claims that could have a material impact on the timing and amount of distributions to Holders of Allowed Claims in Class C4 or Class C5;   provided  , that the Debtors and Reorganized Debtors shall not be liable or otherwise responsible for paying any fees or expenses incurred by the members of or advisors to the TCEH Committee after the TCEH Effective Date in connection with any such activities in this subclause (b) in excess of $200,000, in the aggregate.  Upon dissolution of the EFH/EFIH Committee and TCEH Committee, the members thereof and their respective officers, employees, counsel, advisors, and agents shall be released and discharged from all rights and duties from or related to the Chapter 11 Cases.  The Reorganized Debtors shall no longer be responsible for paying any fees or expenses incurred by the members of or advisors to any statutory committees after the Effective Date, except for the limited purposes identified above. 
           E. 
    Reservation of Rights. 
     Except as expressly set forth in the Plan, the Plan shall have no force or effect unless the Bankruptcy Court shall enter the Confirmation Order.  None of the Filing of the Plan, any statement or provision contained in the Plan, or the taking of any action by any Debtor or other Entity with respect to the Plan, the Disclosure Statement, or the Plan Supplement shall be or shall be deemed to be an admission or waiver of any rights of any Debtor or any other Entity with respect to the Holders of Claims or Interests prior to the Effective Date. 
           F. 
    Successors and Assigns. 
     The rights, benefits, and obligations of any Entity named or referred to in the Plan shall be binding on, and shall inure to the benefit of any heir, executor, administrator, successor, assign, affiliate, officer, director, manager, agent, representative, attorney, beneficiaries, or guardian, if any, of each Entity. 

130 

G. 
    Consent Rights in Taxable Separation. 
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event the Taxable Separation is pursued, no party (other than (i) the TCEH Debtors, including the TCEH Debtors acting at the direction of the applicable Disinterested Directors and Managers with respect to Conflict Matters, (ii) the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, or (iii) the TCEH DIP Agent) shall have any consent, consultation, approval, or similar rights with respect to:  (i) any document referenced in this Plan (including any Plan Supplement document) with respect to the Plan of the TCEH Debtors, that does not affect in any respect any EFH Debtor, any EFIH Debtor, Oncor, the Plan Sponsor, or any Affiliate of the Plan Sponsor and to which none of the EFH Debtor or EFIH Debtor or Oncor  is a party; (ii) the satisfaction or waiver of any of the conditions to Confirmation or Consummation as to the TCEH Debtors; or (iii) any other issue or matter for which seeking or obtaining the consent of the applicable party would be reasonably likely to impede or delay consummation of the Taxable Separation and/or Consummation as to the TCEH Debtors. 
           H. 
    Notices. 
     All notices, requests, and demands to be effective shall be in writing (including by facsimile transmission) and, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when actually delivered or, in the case of notice by facsimile transmission, when received and telephonically confirmed, addressed as follows: 
  1.    if to the Debtors, to: 
  Energy Future Holdings Corp.  
  1601 Bryan Street,  
  Dallas, Texas 75201 
  Attention:  Andrew Wright and Cecily Gooch 
  Email address:  andrew.wright@energyfutureholdings.com and 
  cecily.gooch@energyfutureholdings.com 
  with copies to: 
  Kirkland   Ellis LLP 
  601 Lexington Avenue 
  New York, New York 10022 
  Facsimile:  (212) 446-4900 
  Attention:  Edward O. Sassower, P.C. 
  E-mail addresses:  edward.sassower@kirkland.com  
  --and-- 
    
  Kirkland   Ellis LLP 
  300 North LaSalle 
  Chicago, Illinois 60654 
  Facsimile:  (312) 862-2200 
  Attention:  James H.M. Sprayregen, P.C., Marc Kieselstein, P.C., Chad J. Husnick, and Steven N. Serajeddini 
  E-mail addresses:  james.sprayregen@kirkland.com, marc.kieselstein@kirkland.com, chad.husnick@kirkland.com, and steven.serajeddini@kirkland.com 
    
  --and-- 
    
  Proskauer Rose LLP 
  Three First National Plaza 
  70 W. Madison Street, Suite 3800 
  Chicago, Illinois 60602 
  Facsimile:  (312) 962-3551 
  Attention:  Jeff J. Marwil, Mark. K. Thomas, and Peter J. Young 

131 

E-mail addresses: jmarwil@proskauer.com, mthomas@proskauer.com, and  
  pyoung@proskauer.com 
    
  --and-- 
    
  Cravath Swaine and Moore LLP 
  Worldwide Plaza 
  825 Eighth Avenue 
  New York, New York 10019 
  Facsimile:  (212) 474-3700 
  Attention:  Philip Gelston 
  E-mail address:  pgelston@cravath.com 
    
  --and-- 
    
  Jenner   Block LLP 
  919 Third Avenue  
  New York, New York 10022 
  Facsimile:  (212) 891-1699 
  Attention:  Richard Levin 
  E-mail address:  rlevin@jenner.com 
    
  --and-- 
    
  Munger, Tolles   Olson LLP 
  355 South Grand Avenue, 35th Floor 
  Los Angeles, California 90071 
  Facsimile:  (213) 683-4022 
  Attention:  Thomas B. Walper and Seth Goldman 
  E-mail addresses:  thomas.walper@mto.com and seth.goldman@mto.com 
    
  2.    if to the TCEH DIP Agent, to: 
  White   Case LLP 
  1155 Avenue of the Americas 
  New York, New York 10005 
  Attention:  Eric Leicht, Andrew Ambruoso, and Robert Morrison 
  E-mail addresses:  eleicht@whitecase.com, aambruoso@whitecase.com, 
  rmorrison@whitecase.com 
    
  3.    if to the EFIH First Lien DIP Agent, to: 
  Shearman   Sterling LLP 
  599 Lexington Avenue 
  New York, New York 10022 
  Attention:  Fredric Sosnick and Ned S. Schodek 
  E-mail addresses:  fsosnick@shearman.com and ned.schodek@shearman.com 
    
  4.    if to the Plan Sponsor, to: 
  Chadbourne   Parke LLP 
  1301 Avenue of the Americas 
  New York, NY 10021 
  Attention: Howard Seife and Eric Daucher 
  E-mail addresses: hseife@chadbourne.com and edaucher@chadbourne.com 
    
  132 

--and-- 
    
  Landis Rath   Cobb LLP 
  919 Market Street, Suite 1800 
  Wilmington, Delaware 19801 
  Attention: Adam G. Landis and Matthew B. McGuire 
  E-mail addresses: landis@lrclaw.com and mcguire@lrclaw.com 
    
  5.    if to the TCEH Supporting First Lien Creditors, to: 
  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton   Garrison LLP 
  1285 Avenue of the Americas 
  New York, New York 10019 
  Attention:  Alan W. Kornberg, Brian S. Hermann, and Jacob A. Adlerstein 
  E-mail addresses:  akornberg@paulweiss.com, bhermann@paulweiss.com, and 
  jadlerstein@paulweiss.com 
    
  6.    if to the TCEH Committee, to: 
  Morrison   Foerster LLP 
  250 West 55th Street 
  New York, New York 10019 
  Attention:  Brett H. Miller, James M. Peck, Lorenzo Marinuzzi, and Todd M. Goren 
  E-mail addresses: brettmiller@mofo.com, jpeck@mofo.com, lmarinuzzi@mofo.com, and 
  tgoren@mofo.com 
    
  After the Effective Date, the Reorganized Debtors have authority to send a notice to Entities that to continue to receive documents pursuant to Bankruptcy Rule 2002, such Entity must File a renewed request to receive documents pursuant to Bankruptcy Rule 2002.  After the Effective Date, the Reorganized Debtors are authorized to limit the list of Entities receiving documents pursuant to Bankruptcy Rule 2002 to those Entities who have Filed such renewed requests. 
           I. 
    Term of Injunctions or Stays. 
     Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or the Confirmation Order, all injunctions or stays in effect in the Chapter 11 Cases pursuant to sections 105 or 362 of the Bankruptcy Code or any order of the Bankruptcy Court, and extant on the Confirmation Date (excluding any injunctions or stays contained in the Plan or the Confirmation Order) shall remain in full force and effect until the Effective Date.  All injunctions or stays contained in the Plan or the Confirmation Order shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms. 
           J. 
    Entire Agreement. 
     Except as otherwise indicated, the Plan supersedes all previous and contemporaneous negotiations, promises, covenants, agreements, understandings, and representations on such subjects, all of which have become merged and integrated into the Plan. 
           K. 
    Exhibits. 
     All exhibits and documents included in the Plan Supplement are incorporated into and are a part of the Plan as if set forth in full in the Plan.  After the exhibits and documents are Filed, copies of such exhibits and documents shall be available upon written request to the Debtors  counsel at the address above or by downloading such exhibits and documents from the Debtors  restructuring website at http://www.efhcaseinfo.com or the Bankruptcy Court s website at www.deb.uscourts.gov. 

133 

L. 
    Nonseverability of Plan Provisions. 
     If, before Confirmation, any term or provision of the Plan is held by the Bankruptcy Court to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the Bankruptcy Court shall have the power to alter and interpret such term or provision to make it valid or enforceable to the maximum extent practicable, consistent with the original purpose of the term or provision held to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, and such term or provision shall then be applicable as altered or interpreted;   provided   that in no event shall the Plan Sponsor be required to consummate any of the transactions contemplated to be consummated at the Merger Closing unless the conditions to the Plan Sponsor s consummation of such transactions shall have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the Merger Agreement.  Notwithstanding any such holding, alteration, or interpretation, the remainder of the terms and provisions of the Plan will remain in full force and effect and will in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated by such holding, alteration, or interpretation.  The Confirmation Order shall constitute a judicial determination and shall provide that each term and provision of the Plan, as it may have been altered or interpreted in accordance with the foregoing, is:  (1) valid and enforceable pursuant to its terms; (2) integral to the Plan and may not be deleted or modified without the Debtors  or Reorganized Debtors  consent, as applicable; and (3) nonseverable and mutually dependent.  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Plan may be confirmed and consummated as to the TCEH Debtors and the EFH Shared Services Debtors separate from, and independent of, any confirmation or consummation of this Plan as to any of the EFH Debtors or EFIH Debtors. 
           M. 
    Votes Solicited in Good Faith. 
     Upon entry of the Confirmation Order, the Debtors will be deemed to have solicited votes on the Plan in good faith and in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, and pursuant to section 1125(e) of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors and each of their respective Affiliates, agents, representatives, members, principals, shareholders, officers, directors, managers, employees, advisors, and attorneys will be deemed to have participated in good faith and in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code in the offer, issuance, sale, and purchase of Securities offered and sold under the Plan and any previous plan, and, therefore, neither any of such parties or individuals or the Reorganized Debtors will have any liability for the violation of any applicable law (including the Securities Act), rule, or regulation governing the solicitation of votes on the Plan or the offer, issuance, sale, or purchase of the Securities offered and sold under the Plan and any previous plan. 
           N. 
    Waiver or Estoppel. 
     Each Holder of a Claim or Interest shall be deemed to have waived any right to assert any argument, including the right to argue that its Claim or Interest should be Allowed in a certain amount, in a certain priority, Secured or not subordinated by virtue of an agreement made with the Debtors or their counsel, or any other Entity, if such agreement was not disclosed in the Plan, the Disclosure Statement, or papers Filed before the Confirmation Date. 
           O. 
    Conflicts. 
     Except as set forth in the Plan, to the extent that any provision of the Disclosure Statement, the Plan Supplement, the Merger Agreement, or any agreement or order (other than the Confirmation Order) referenced in the Plan (or any exhibits, schedules, appendices, supplements, or amendments to any of the foregoing), conflict with or are in any way inconsistent with any provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern and control;   provided  ,   however  , with respect to any conflict or inconsistency between the Plan and the Confirmation Order, the Confirmation Order shall govern;   provided further, however  , that in no event shall the Plan Sponsor be required to consummate any of the transactions contemplated to be consummated at the Merger Closing unless the conditions to the Plan Sponsor s consummation of such transactions shall have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the Merger Agreement. 
    
  [  Remainder of page intentionally left blank  .] 

134 

Dated:  February 17, 2017 
  Respectfully submitted, 
  ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP. 
  TEXAS COMPETITIVE ELECTRIC HOLDINGS COMPANY LLC 
  4CHANGE ENERGY COMPANY 
  4CHANGE ENERGY HOLDINGS LLC 
  BIG BROWN 3 POWER COMPANY LLC 
  BIG BROWN LIGNITE COMPANY LLC 
  BIG BROWN POWER COMPANY LLC 
  BRIGHTEN ENERGY LLC 
  BRIGHTEN HOLDINGS LLC 
  COLLIN POWER COMPANY LLC 
  DALLAS POWER   LIGHT COMPANY, INC. 
  DECORDOVA II POWER COMPANY LLC  
  DECORDOVA POWER COMPANY LLC 
  EAGLE MOUNTAIN POWER COMPANY LLC 
  EBASCO SERVICES OF CANADA LIMITED 
  EEC HOLDINGS, INC. 
  EECI, INC. 
  EFH AUSTRALIA (NO. 2) HOLDINGS COMPANY 
  EFH CG HOLDINGS COMPANY LP 
  EFH CG MANAGEMENT COMPANY LLC 
  EFH CORPORATE SERVICES COMPANY 
  EFIH FINANCE (NO. 2) HOLDINGS COMPANY 
  EFIH FINANCE INC. 
  EFH FS HOLDINGS COMPANY 
  ENERGY FUTURE COMPETITIVE HOLDINGS COMPANY LLC 
  ENERGY FUTURE INTERMEDIATE HOLDING COMPANY LLC 
  EFH RENEWABLES COMPANY LLC 
  GENERATION DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LLC 
  GENERATION MT COMPANY LLC 
  GENERATION SVC COMPANY 
  LAKE CREEK 3 POWER COMPANY LLC 
  LONE STAR ENERGY COMPANY, INC. 
  LONE STAR PIPELINE COMPANY, INC. 
  LSGT GAS COMPANY LLC 
  LSGT SACROC, INC. 
  LUMINANT BIG BROWN MINING COMPANY LLC 
  LUMINANT ENERGY COMPANY LLC 
  LUMINANT ENERGY TRADING CALIFORNIA COMPANY 
  LUMINANT ET SERVICES COMPANY 
  LUMINANT GENERATION COMPANY LLC 
  LUMINANT HOLDING COMPANY LLC 
  LUMINANT MINERAL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LLC 
  LUMINANT MINING COMPANY LLC 
  LUMINANT RENEWABLES COMPANY LLC 
  MARTIN LAKE 4 POWER COMPANY LLC 
  MONTICELLO 4 POWER COMPANY LLC 
  MORGAN CREEK 7 POWER COMPANY LLC 
  NCA DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LLC 
  NCA RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LLC 
  OAK GROVE MANAGEMENT COMPANY LLC 
  OAK GROVE MINING COMPANY LLC 
  OAK GROVE POWER COMPANY LLC 
  SANDOW POWER COMPANY LLC 

SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC SERVICE COMPANY, INC. 
  TCEH FINANCE, INC. 
  TEXAS ELECTRIC SERVICE COMPANY, INC. 
  TEXAS ENERGY INDUSTRIES COMPANY, INC. 
  TEXAS POWER   LIGHT COMPANY, INC. 
  TEXAS UTILITIES COMPANY, INC. 
  TEXAS UTILITIES ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. 
  TRADINGHOUSE 3   4 POWER COMPANY LLC 
  TRADINGHOUSE POWER COMPANY LLC 
  TXU ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. 
  TXU ENERGY RECEIVABLES COMPANY LLC 
  TXU ENERGY RETAIL COMPANY LLC 
  TXU ENERGY SOLUTIONS COMPANY LLC 
  TXU RECEIVABLES COMPANY 
  TXU RETAIL SERVICES COMPANY 
  TXU SEM COMPANY 
  VALLEY NG POWER COMPANY LLC 
  VALLEY POWER COMPANY LLC 
    
  By:                  /s/ Anthony Horton             
    
  Name:   Anthony Horton  
           Title:  
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of EFH Corp., and EFIH 

Prepared by: 
  KIRKLAND   ELLIS LLP 
  Edward O. Sassower, P.C. (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Stephen E. Hessler (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Brian E. Schartz (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  601 Lexington Avenue 
  New York, New York 10022 
  (212) 446 4800 (telephone) 
    
  --and-- 
    
  James H.M. Sprayregen, P.C. (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Marc Kieselstein, P.C. (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Chad J. Husnick (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Steven N. Serajeddini (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  300 North LaSalle 
  Chicago, Illinois 60654 
  (312) 862-2000 (telephone) 
    
  --and-- 
    
  RICHARDS, LAYTON   FINGER, P.A. 
  Mark D. Collins (No. 2981)  
  Daniel J. DeFranceschi (No. 2732) 
  Jason M. Madron (No. 4431) 
  920 North King Street 
  Wilmington, Delaware 19801 
  (302) 651-7700 (telephone) 
    
  Counsel to the Debtors and Debtors in Possession 
    
  --and-- 
    
  PROSKAUER ROSE LLP 
  Jeff J. Marwil (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Mark K. Thomas (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Peter J. Young (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Three First National Plaza 
  70 W. Madison Street, Suite 3800 
  Chicago, Illinois 60602 
  (312) 962-3550 (telephone) 
    
  Co-Counsel to the Debtor Energy Future Holdings Corp. 
    
  --and-- 
    
  CRAVATH, SWAINE AND MOORE LLP 
  Phillip Gelston (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  Worldwide Plaza 
  825 Eighth Avenue 
  New York, New York 10019 
  (212) 474-1978 (telephone) 

JENNER   BLOCK LLP 
  Richard Levin (admitted   pro hac vice  ) 
  919 Third Avenue  
  New York, New York 10022 
  (212) 891-1600 (telephone) 
    
  Co-Counsel to the Debtor Energy Future Intermediate Holding Company LLC 
    
  --and-- 
    
  MUNGER, TOLLES   OLSON LLP 
  Thomas B. Walper (admitted   pro hac vice  )  
  Todd J. Rosen (admitted   pro hac vice  )  
  Seth Goldman (admitted   pro hac vice  )  
  355 South Grand Avenue, 35th Floor 
  Los Angeles, California 90071 
  (213) 683-9100 (telephone) 
    
  Co-Counsel to the TCEH Debtors 

EXHIBIT A 
    
  TCEH s Debtor Subsidiaries 
    
  4Change Energy Company  
  4Change Energy Holdings LLC 
  Big Brown 3 Power Company LLC 
  Big Brown Lignite Company LLC 
  Big Brown Power Company LLC 
  Collin Power Company LLC 
  DeCordova Power Company LLC 
  DeCordova II Power Company LLC 
  Eagle Mountain Power Company LLC 
  Generation MT Company LLC 
  Generation SVC Company 
  Lake Creek 3 Power Company LLC 
  Luminant Big Brown Mining Company LLC 
  Luminant Energy Company LLC 
  Luminant Energy Trading California Company 
  Luminant ET Services Company  
  Luminant Generation Company LLC 
  Luminant Holding Company LLC 
  Luminant Mineral Development Company LLC  
  Luminant Mining Company LLC 
  Luminant Renewables Company LLC 
  Martin Lake 4 Power Company LLC 
  Monticello 4 Power Company LLC 
  Morgan Creek 7 Power Company LLC 
  NCA Resources Development Company LLC 
  Oak Grove Management Company LLC 
  Oak Grove Mining Company LLC 
  Oak Grove Power Company LLC 
  Sandow Power Company LLC 
  TCEH Finance, Inc. 
  Tradinghouse 3   4 Power Company LLC  
  Tradinghouse Power Company LLC 
  TXU Energy Receivables Company LLC 
  TXU Energy Retail Company LLC 
  TXU Energy Solutions Company LLC 
  TXU Retail Services Company 
  TXU SEM Company 
  Valley NG Power Company LLC 
  Valley Power Company LLC  

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 nee-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 nee-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 nee-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 nee-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 nee-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 nee-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

